I think the price action's reasonable
right now.
>> There's just too much uncertainty about
these larger narratives.
>> I think it's a buy incrementally [music]
less America moment.
>> There's still some more room that you
could fall.
>> The equity market is going to have a
hard time making that next leg higher.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Wednesday looking for stability.
Crude pairing gains following the
biggest two-day rally in almost six
years [music] as President Trump is
attempting to support shipping through
the Strait of Hormuz. And reports
suggest Iran and operatives have reached
out to discuss ending the war. That
report is supporting sentiment this
morning.
>> Okay, there are a couple of takeaways
here from this report that isn't
verified and to be clear is
backchannel's discussion through another
country's spy agency talking supposedly
with the CIA operatives and people that
know how serious anyone is. The fact
that markets want to rally gives you a
sense of people wanting to buy this dip,
still wanting to hope that this is going
to be temporary. [music] On the flip
side, it highlights all of the thorny
questions like who's in charge in Iran?
Who does President Trump want to be in
charge in Iran? And then how can anyone
rebuild trust in this type of
circumstance?
>> This war is ongoing. This conflict is
arguably still escalating. This from the
UAE just moments ago. They intercepted
three missiles
>> [music]
>> and 129 drones just today. And the
president's trying to support traffic
through the Strait of Hormuz. And this
is what he's trying to do, provide a
framework for insurance and escort ships
through the Strait. In his own words, no
matter what the United States will
ensure the free flow of energy to the
world. [music] The President of the
United States. This is the reaction
we've seen on Wall Street. RBC, we
question how much planning has been done
on the insurance [music] backstop. This
from ING, naval escorts will be sitting
ducks to Iranian attacks. This is easier
said than done. And frankly, getting
people's confidence that they're not
just going to be shot down is different
than saying, "We will escort you."
especially because it hasn't happened
yet. You also are seeing a lot of ships
already getting rerouted, and already
the stockpiles are full, which is a
reason why you're seeing production
being halted in different places.
[music]
What President Trump wants to do is to
invoke the US International Development
Finance Corporation [music]
to support some of the insurance to back
these ships. That alone is going to take
time. So, even if there is a mechanism
to do that, there is some friction
between now and when it could actually
get implemented.
>> you on the market side. We haven't seen
[music] tremendous damage at the index
level on the S&P 500 this morning.
European equities supportive, but on the
year they're off the highs. Haven't seen
a new high in today on crude for about
24 hours now, off the 85 level we broke
through yesterday. So, some subtle signs
that markets are adjusting and have
completed that adjustment.
>> to investors, they want to look through
this. They want to look through
geopolitics. They always say this is not
going [music] to be something that
determines for a longer term unless it
goes on for a long time. And they talk
about the solid fundamentals. That's the
reason one of pillar of what we get on
Friday, [music] the nonfarm payrolls
report in the United States, could be
really important. Does it confirm that
strength, or does it potentially throw a
thorn in that particular narrative?
>> matters to markets at this point? This
from Silk Chen. One, the shock duration,
all on board with that. And two, the
Fed's [music] reaction function. Later
this morning, in 2 hours and 30 minutes
time, we'll catch up with the biggest
dove on the FOMC, Governor Miron. And a
lot of questions with him as to whether
this shock matters to how they set
policy.
>> Especially because Neel Kashkari of the
Minneapolis Fed, [music] speaking to
Michael McKee yesterday, said it
potentially could take a rate cut off
the table for this year. Talking about
how right now it's too soon to know what
kind of effect this would have on
inflation. Typically, the Fed looks past
these types [music] of shocks. Do we get
the same kind of view from Steven Miron?
>> Brent crude this morning, 82.65. WTI
75.28.
Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
Sebastian Page of T. Rowe Price. With
global markets whipsawed by the Middle
East, John Leibold of Eurasia Group as
the White House looks to support
shipping. And Paul Sankey of Sankey
Research following oil's biggest two-day
gain since 2020. We begin this hour with
stocks looking to recover as geopolitics
fuels major volatility. Sebastian Page
of T. Rowe Price writing this, "The bear
case is a prolonged war, prolonged
closure of Australian farmers, and
escalating attacks on energy
infrastructure. Our Brent range then
would be 100 to 120." Sebastian joins us
now for more. Seb, welcome to the
program. That's the bear case. What's
the base case?
You know, our research platform's been
on overdrive over the weekend as you can
expect. And I've been reading and
reading the research from our analysts.
And John, I can say there's there is no
base case. It's extremes on both sides.
I hate saying the range of outcomes is
wide because it always sounds like an
out. But we really have two scenarios,
one short, one long.
And the short scenario um you know, I
think The Wall Street Journal reported
that this has been a bit of a race in
terms of the missiles and drones from
Iran and then the defenses from the Gulf
countries that both are running out. And
then you just reported on news that um
you know, there are some I don't know if
you call it rumors or something else,
but there's some news items that are
pointing towards the short scenario. And
then the long scenario is an escalation
and you just outlined it. So, John,
there is no base case. We're looking at
scenarios. That's the only way to manage
this right now between short and long.
And what we want is, you know,
geopolitical hedging in the portfolio,
which we've had for a while. So, we
remain long real asset equities and
including energy, but also metals and
mining and commodity stocks.
>> Seb, where do bonds fit in as we
confront a shock like this one?
Yeah, you know, that's tough question.
I'm kind of a I'm a bit of a correlation
nerd and one of the studies I've done is
study of a correlation between stocks
and bonds that if I were to boil it down
cuz we talk and I know in surveillance
we talk about this talk about stocks and
bonds and the stock bond correlation.
You can boil it down pretty simply. If
you get an inflation shock, both stocks
and downs can go both both stocks and
bonds can go down together.
If you get a growth shock, then I still
believe and the evidence is there that
treasuries remain a hedge for a growth
shock. Now, these things are always in
grain so it's which factor dominates.
Well, if you look at the current
situation, the inflation risk is clearly
there.
One of our analysts studied, you know,
several oil shocks and he calculated
that peak oil on average occurs 23 days
after the beginning of the attacks or
the military military intervention. And
then that oil rallies on average 27%.
Again, these are averages a mix of
extremes. The range of outcome is wide
as much as I hate saying this. So it's
it's a matter of hedging and you'll see
that in those cases when oil is driving
and when inflation concerns are there
and you saw the one-year inflation swaps
go up around these events. Well, then
bonds are not the same hedge as they
used to be and you have to have
alternative hedges in the portfolios.
Sebastian, how important is nonfarm
payrolls on Friday in light of this
given the fact that a lot of whether
this is an inflationary shock or whether
this is potentially a shock to growth is
predicated on how much momentum there
was heading into this.
Well, I think the geopolitical headlines
will continue to dominate into Friday.
Nonfarm payrolls are always important.
No single data point matters, but we
still debate employment quite a bit in
our asset allocation committee,
especially in the context of AI. I
believe the unemployment picture is is
okay in the US for the time being. You
know, we're still at 4.3%. I always
remind people that the long-run average
unemployment is 5.7%.
So, the economy in the US is humming. Of
course, if you get a tax on the consumer
in the form of higher gasoline prices,
and then that can change the picture,
but that won't be in the nonfarm payroll
numbers on Friday. So, I guess Lisa,
I'll say moderately important. It's part
of the mosaic, and we have to I like the
question because sometimes we get
carried away with geopolitical
headlines. Of course, this is a major
event. I guess just like it's in in some
ways another word I had to use is
unprecedented, but I'm using all the
words I had to use this morning. But,
you know, um
growth and inflation are still major
forces uh driving the US economy, and if
we're running at five, five and a half,
6% nominal growth, uh stocks should do
okay. And by the way, there's a nice
study by Merrill Lynch that shows that
about 60 years of geopolitical shocks
and 70% positive stock returns after a
year and an average of 9.5%.
So, that kind of could sets this
narrative as you buy the dip, and you
you know, it's a buying opportunity when
you get a geopolitical shock, but I
think the picture right now is more
nuanced than we're advocating for
hedges, including uh
the in the stocks portfolios, including
real asset equities. Sebastian, I'm
going to give you another word that you
probably hate using. Is this market
virtually untradable based on the lack
of fundamental backing behind a lot of
the potential moves?
I Yeah, untradable. Here's another one,
Lisa. Thank you.
I think that markets are deep and
liquid, and we talked about Treasuries.
I mean, those can remain a hedge if we
get a growth shock, which I don't
necessarily expect. That's not the base
case.
Um
you see oil markets behave, you know,
we're already in the '80s in crude. It's
been interesting to follow the oil price
reaction on my Bloomberg terminal, uh
you know, from this idea that we'll
escort ships around the Strait of Hormuz
and that we'll insure them. And then,
you know, you saw you saw oil prices
come down a little bit, but then this
morning it looks like, you know, we're
back up. And so, um you were just
reporting about Wall Street skepticism.
I think this is this is hard to do, but
overall markets are behaving, Lisa.
Except we confront a lot of shocks and
have done past month or so. I think
there's three broad shocks. AI
disruption being one. The second being
the jitters in credit. And now the third
there's the energy shock over the
weekend. I'm interested in two and three
and the interplay between both. The
credit jitters need a rate offset. And I
just wonder how you are thinking about
the prospect of the rate offset being
constrained by the story developing,
which is three, the energy shock. We're
not getting a loosening of financial
conditions. We're getting a tightening
of financial conditions at a time when
credit jitters are heightening. They're
not de-escalating. And I just wonder how
you think that's going to play out in
the weeks to come.
Yeah, look, the major risk for
multi-asset investors is that the
Treasuries don't behave as you need them
to be when stocks sell off. But let's as
I think I heard Lori Calvasina say on
Surveillance earlier this week, let's
all take a deep breath, right? Right
now, stocks are are doing okay. And I
think there's this narrative that
geopolitics won't drive everything. You
know, John, I have um you have um AI
tool now on the Bloomberg terminal. It's
in beta version, right? But I was using
it just for fun and I thought I'd
mention it on the show. And I was
looking at, okay, what's the
relationship between oil and stock
prices? And only 6% of stock price
volatility over time, not during
specific events, you know, can drive the
S&P 500. So, it's a lot of different
factors playing all at once. AI is a
huge debate on our asset allocation
committee, especially in terms of what
it will do to employment and how fast.
Some of us are saying, "Look, you know,
it takes a lot of resources to clean
your data and tag your data and upgrade
your infrastructure. So, maybe you're
actually hiring people to deploy AI."
This is This is just me being
controversial, but then we all know that
over time it can replace jobs. And how
is this going to play out? I was driving
to work earlier this week listening to
Bloomberg Surveillance and you know, my
drive's about 30 minutes, Jonathan, and
it was 30 minutes I got to work and
there was no discussion on surveillance
of AI because of all the geopolitical
risk, right? And so, I said, "Wow, they
haven't they haven't talked about AI or
the Fed even once and and I'm I'm at
work already. It's been 30 minutes." Uh
but those factors, let's not forget
them. They still matter very much in
portfolios. And before all this
happened, we saw industries fall one
after the other, which we ended up
debating in our asset allocation
committee. It's this idea of dispersion,
John, and that's going to continue.
Dispersion across industries. Our
portfolio managers like healthcare
stocks. It's interesting. They like
technology, but they also like materials
and um you know, even energy stocks.
Sebastien, they say we can only focus on
the shark closest to the boat. There are
a lot of sharks out there, but the shark
closest to the boat right now, the shark
COVID a weekend. Sebastien, it's good to
see you as always. Sebastien Page there
of T. Rowe Price and the author of the
psychology of leadership. The psychology
of this market right now. You indicated
you think this is a market that wants to
rally. Clearly, that was the reaction in
terms of any little catalyst, no matter
how small and how second or third or
fourth hand it is, giving people an
impetus to buy. That said, what you
said, the question that you asked, Seb,
I think was a really important one. How
much do a potential increased tightening
of financial conditions tied to an oil
shock affect the credit jitters that
we're seeing? Does that accelerate some
sort of shakeout and create a more
violent if maybe a shorter period of
time in which this happens?
Increasingly, this is what a lot of
people are focused on. That market needs
an offset and right now it risk getting
an accelerant and that's a problem.
Equity futures at the moment on the S&P
positive by a third of 1% with an update
on news worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Yohai has more. Hi Yohai. Hi
John. [music]
Iran is ready to negotiate with the US.
The New York Times reporting that
Iranian intelligence operatives
>> [music]
>> reached out to the US government a day
after the attacks began to discuss
ending the conflict. After saying for
days he was open to discussing a deal
with Iran, President [music] Donald
Trump posting on Truth Social on Tuesday
morning that it is now quote too late
for talks.
Uh President Trump also saying the US
will provide naval escorts to ensure
[music] safe passage for oil tankers and
other vessels through the Strait of
Hormuz. The President's also saying the
US International Development Finance
Corporation will offer insurance at
quote a very reasonable price to help
[music] maintain the flow of commercial
trade in the Gulf.
And the South Korean Kospi suffering its
worst one-day sell-off on record
plunging 12% in today's trading
following a 7% drop
>> [music]
>> uh yesterday. The index seeing an
AI-driven rally this year that sent it
higher by more than 20% [music] while
the S&P has turned lower on the year
currently down by uh half of 1%. That's
your [music] Bloomberg brief, John.
Yohai, thank you. Thanks for the update.
The big winners of the year so far, the
big losers of the week so far. Up next
on the program, a pressure point for
crude.
If we have a little high oil prices for
a little while uh but as soon as this
ends, those prices are going to drop. I
believe lower than even before. Up next,
we'll catch up with John Leeba of
Eurasia Group from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
>> Equities off the lows and crude off the
highs. Equity features this morning
positive by 0.4% on the S&P, on the
NASDAQ up by 0.5. The Russell
outperformance there up by 0.9.
>> [music]
>> Turn to the commodity market, crude
specifically. Almost 24 hours ago to the
second, that was the intraday high for
crude just yesterday, $85 a barrel. This
morning 82.56, so just off those highs.
Positive on the session, but off those
highs. We're up by 1.3% so [music] far.
Under Savannah's this morning, a
pressure point for crude.
If we have a little high
oil prices for a little while,
uh but as soon as this ends, those
prices are going to drop. I believe
lower than even before. This is, of
course, damaging our economies. This is
true for the oil prices and this is true
for the gas prices as well. So, that's
the reason why we all hope that this
uh war will come to an end as soon as
possible. So, here's the latest this
morning. Iran reportedly coming to the
negotiating table. The New York Times
reporting Iranian intelligence
operatives approached the US government
over the weekend with an offer to
discuss terms to end the conflict. Our
team coverage starts right now with
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall in Washington,
Joumanna Bercetche in Dubai. Tyler, I
want to come to you first. The headline
from the New York Times is encouraging.
I think the substance less so, and the
date of the outreach specifically. Can
you go through the details?
Well, hey John, good morning. I was in
the Oval Office yesterday where
President Trump maintained that the US
is going to sustain this military
operation until all of its objectives
are achieved. And the New York Times is
even reporting that the sense from US
officials is skepticism that there could
be a diplomatic off-ramp at the moment
and it's still unclear if Iran even
wants a deal, too. Now, President Trump
did say yesterday that the potential
worst-case scenario would be if new
leadership emerges that's quote just as
bad as the current regime that the US
and Israel are trying to change. The
president himself said that he hopes
that a new more moderate leader could
emerge that the administration feels
that it could work with, but then also
mentioned how most of those top
contenders that the White House had been
eyeing have been killed in airstrikes.
In fact, Bloomberg News is reporting
that the Israeli military appeared to
target a meeting of the coalition that
is currently tasked with choosing the
next supreme leader just yesterday. Now,
President Trump, as you know, has also
called on the Iranian people to take
over their government as well. So,
there's big questions here about exactly
what the administration would like to
see when it comes to an outcome and
future leadership in Iran and a lot of
that has to do with the timeline and how
long this military campaign can go on.
Now, John, as you mentioned earlier in
the program, amid these questions about
the timeline, President Trump did take
action yesterday to announce that he is
trying to stave off a potential energy
crisis with this announcement of
potential insurance guarantees and a
naval escort. I will point out that he
met yesterday with his top energy and
Treasury advisers, Scott Bessent and
Chris Wright, about a potential plan to
help those energy prices here at home.
>> Let's talk about that energy plan,
Jimena. Let's focus on energy
specifically. The president offering
vague details of a plan with two key
pillars. One, provide a framework for
insurance and two, escorting ships
through the Strait of Hormuz. How well
received is that plan being over in your
region?
Yeah, well, I think earlier in the show
you were saying that there's a bit of
skepticism from the analyst community as
to exactly how it's going to be
implemented and which companies are
willingly going to take it up and expose
their vessels to some of the risk. Um,
earlier this morning, the Revolutionary
Guard uh once again reiterating that
they have and this is what they're
asserting full control still of the
Strait of Hormuz, which is effectively
shut. Um, and you have to think about
two things that are going on right now
in the energy world. Number one is the
effective closure because vessels are
not transiting through the straits and
the other is ongoing attacks on key
energy infrastructure sites around the
region. Yet another attempted attack
this morning on the Ras Tanura refining
capacity refining facility in Aramco.
Uh, and that is uh, the largest refiner
in the Middle East. Uh, so this tells
you, you know, Iran isn't letting up and
I'm just going to leave your viewers
with one statistic that I think is
really relevant here because they
continue to lash out at Gulf states. In
the 12-day war and this is uh,
Iran-Israel.
Iran sent over a total of 1,500 missiles
and drones towards Israel. In the first
four days of this war, they sent over
1,800
to the GCC states. And these are
countries that Iran has diplomatic
relations with. So, most definitely you
can say that there has been a broad
escalation and there no signs really of
things letting up right now.
>> Without a doubt. Jumana, thanks for
that. Jumana Passet here alongside Tyler
Kendall. To build on the conversation,
John Lieber, if you raise a group right
in the following, "The Iran conflict
will likely taper off within two to
three weeks as the US and Israel
successfully degrade Iran's military
capabilities." John joins us now for
more. John, welcome to the program. What
gives you the confidence that we'll end
this in a two to three week time frame?
Man, I don't have a ton of confidence
that this is going to be over then, but
there is an issue where
uh, the military capabilities just
aren't going to be what they were when
this whole thing began. So, the Iranians
eventually run out of ballistic
missiles. We just heard about the large
number that they've been launching
against other countries in the region.
Eventually, you know, they they do have
a large quantity of drones that I think
the US is going to have trouble getting
access to before they're launched, which
means that Iran's defense defenses
offensive capabilities will remain
fairly aggressive for the for the
immediate future, but at some point this
is going to taper off when they start
running out of ballistic missiles and
the US starts to
uh run out of its ability to defend its
own ships in the region. Now, I think if
you listen to what Donald Trump has been
saying, he's been pretty explicit that
there's more to come here, that this is
kind of the initial phase of these
strikes, and we think this probably
escalates over the next several days to
maybe a week or so uh as the US tries to
end this uh quickly. The US does not
want to be in this war for the long
haul. Now, of course, they're going to
remain committed to the region because
what they need is regime compliance, not
regime change, and the way that they
enforce regime compliance is by
maintaining a credible threat to bomb
whoever is coming next. So,
I but we think the most intense part of
this fighting likely tapers off in the
next few weeks. How concerned are you,
John, about the asymmetry in cost
between what the US is deploying and
what Iran is deploying? And I'm thinking
about all those drones that you said are
going to be hard to identify before
they're launched. The US is shooting
them down with million-dollar missiles.
Each of those drones is relatively cheap
to produce. How much of a problem is
that?
Yeah, it's a huge problem. I mean, the
the advantage here, of course, is the
US's industrial capacity, which over
time is going to be able to make sure
that those ships are resupplied at any
cost. You know, Trump is trying to
increase the defense budget. It seems
like Congress is more or less willing to
go along here. So, the US has
a large store of production capabilities
that it can draw on with time. Iran
doesn't, and it won't. It probably has
these stocks of drones. It's got these
stocks of missiles. It will run out of
them at some point. Um but they can
cause a lot of damage in the meantime,
and that I think is the major concern
for Gulf partner states around Iran
right now. Less of a concern for Israel
given the distance that Israel has from
Iran. John, just quickly, how did you
and the team react when you heard the
president's vague, I would say,
framework to how to traffic through the
Strait of Hormuz?
You know, this could work. I mean, if
I'm a shipper, I don't want my
tankers destroyed or sunk, so it's
obviously quite risky. But the US is now
putting taxpayer money behind ensuring
that these ships can get through.
I think we have to wait and see what the
details look like. Legally, it seems
like he probably has the authority, some
flexibility in the in in the in the in
the DFC in order to do this.
But I think that, you know, and and
clearly they've thought this isn't a
totally slapdash plan. I think that they
actually do have some reasonable
planning behind this that suggests they
will be able to compensate for losses.
The question is, are shippers willing to
take those losses and then
and take that risk.
>> John, I was going to say John Leiper of
Leiper Group. Two different ways to talk
about this. The policy experts will look
at this and they'll be very skeptical.
The market participants will look at
this and say, this signals a degree of
sensitivity to what's emerging in the
Middle East. And you're going to see
more. It might pretty good potentially
be some sort of, dare I say, put from
the White House to cap some of the
volatility and frankly some of the
violence that we've seen.
>> You can judge which is the best way of
looking at this right now. Equity
futures session highs up by 0.4% on the
S&P. Up [music] next we'll catch up with
Paul Sankey of Sankey Research with
crude coming off its biggest two-day
gain in almost six years.
Programming note for you, it's about 90
minutes away, so 8:00 a.m. Eastern time,
you'll want to tune in for this. US
Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth
alongside the Chairman [music] of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, Air Force General
Dan Cain, holding a news conference from
the Pentagon. Again, that's taking place
at about 8:00 a.m. Eastern time. We'll
bring you some of that a little bit
later. At the moment, equity futures
doing okay, with the emphasis on okay.
Equity futures [music] right now up a
third of 1% on the S&P off session lows
on the Nasdaq up by 0.4 as we turn to
the bond market two's [music] 10's and
30's yields look like this this morning
two-year yields just about unchanged
after repricing higher over the previous
few sessions 35124 [music]
and in commodities we are off the highs
of crude from yesterday $85 [music]
a barrel briefly at 6:18 Eastern time in
yesterday's session this morning we're
[music] back to 8215. As they look
traders look for some sort of off-ramp
and the potential for one that was
raised in the New York Times article. I
think you framed it really well about
how a lot of people in the policy world
are saying there's a long way to go
between this story about fourth-hand
discussions about somehow getting an
off-ramp and somehow
>> [music]
>> getting to an end of the war. People
want this to be short. The market
believes that this will be short. The
market is trying to hedge on the margins
that it won't be but doesn't want to and
that's what we're seeing in the market
this morning.
>> The piece from the New York Times came
out about 30 35 40 minutes ago and this
is ultimately the essence of it. The day
after the attacks began operatives from
Iran's Ministry of Intelligence reached
out indirectly to the CIA with an offer
to discuss terms for ending
>> [music]
>> the conflict. I'm reading that verbatim
from the New York Times that's according
to officials briefed on the outreach.
Now I think the date's really important
that's the day after the conflict
started. I've got no idea if those
operatives are still around
>> [music]
>> given the amount of damage done to the
leadership in Iran and if the off-ramp
was there it certainly wasn't taken
given the events we've seen take place
over the [music] past few days.
>> President Trump alone said look so many
of them are getting wiped out I don't
even know who any of them are anymore
and this raises this question who's in
charge? Who does President Trump want to
be in charge? How do you find the
elusive moderate in Iranian politics
which has been something that has sort
of been the holy grail over the past
decade or so and so there's a real
question here how credible an off-ramp
really looks given all of these
potential constraints. Futures doing
okay up a third of 1% let's get you some
single names as we count you down to the
up and the down so morning movers Yahara
has more. Hi Yahara. Hi John we start
with Ross Stores shares are surging 7.7%
after the off-price retailer delivered a
strong earnings beat. It echoes what we
heard from TJX [music]
last week as shoppers flocked to their
stores to hunt for deals. And the big
draw is that in-person treasure hunt,
something difficult to disrupt from an
AI standpoint. And for that reason,
investors have been piling into this
name. Shares were already up 8%
year-to-date heading into [music] the
report. And we have been watching the
software names closely when it comes to
their earnings. And more often than not,
they have disappointed investors. The
latest example is GitLab. Shares are
down 7% after it gave an outlook for
fiscal 2027 that came in well below
estimates, just adding to the [music] AI
anxiety around software. And we end on
Coinbase. These shares are higher for
several reasons. Shares are up 6%.
[music]
Uh Cathie Wood buying $4 million in
shares. But more interestingly is this
Politico reports [music]
that CEO Brian Armstrong was at the
White House yesterday meeting with the
president, which then explains the
president [music] firing off a Truth
Social criticizing banks uh for stalling
a crypto bill. Now, at the center
[music] of this clash is whether crypto
firms can offer yield on stablecoins,
something banks have been lobbying hard
against, warning it would pull deposits
out of the traditional banking system
and threaten lending. John. Yohana,
thank you. Thanks for the update. More
from Yohana later this hour. On our
radar this morning, Iran reportedly
coming to the negotiating table. The New
York Times reporting Iranian
intelligence operatives approached the
US government over the weekend with an
offer to discuss terms to end the
conflict. As well, the president saying
the US will provide naval escorts and
insurance for ships passing through the
Strait of Hormuz. The president writing
on Truth Social, "No matter what, the
United States will ensure the free flow
of energy to the world." And finally,
the president also threatening to cut
off all of trade with Spain. His
comments coming after the country denied
US access to its air bases during
attacks over the weekend.
Some of the European nations have been
helpful and some haven't, but some of
the European like Spain has been
terrible. I told Scott
to cut off all
dealings with Spain. So we we're going
to cut off all trade with Spain. We
don't want anything to do with Spain.
The Spanish Prime Minister said he won't
yield to threats. To me, the reason why
this is particularly notable aside from
relations between the US and Spain is
what happened in the wake of the IEPA
ruling by the Supreme Court. And what
President Trump and his cabinet members
were saying yesterday was saying it
reaffirmed his ability to use the law to
take other actions including even
imposing economic embargoes. And what I
view this is is almost a test of how far
President Trump could take this to exert
the same leverage if not even more than
what he had under IEPA which was struck
down under other Supreme Court.
>> at this from the European angle. There's
something like 27 members of the EU.
This is why it's so difficult to set
policy at the European level because you
have a government like Italy, right
wing. You have a government like Spain.
I would say super super left wing at
this point. And Spain has a different
view of developments in the Middle East.
It also has a very different view of
developments in China as well. And if
you want to talk about trade and take
the Middle East out of this,
foreign policy is an issue with the
Spanish and I would say trade policy is
an issue with the Spanish government as
well. If ultimately you want to do
something about getting China to change
its economic model, you can't get Europe
on board right now because there are
governments like the Spanish government
who are preventing you from doing that.
>> Right now this is absolute fragmentation
in its most obvious form. It is
fragmentation for the European Union
which puts them in a spot of difficulty
when it comes to negotiation. And it
points to the fragmentation of US policy
in terms of trying to figure out where
leverage comes into play. That is why
when we talk to investors, it is a
feeling of macro paralysis. And I'm
quoting Jim Zelter of Apollo here, but
really this is the embodiment of it with
people not even feeling like they know
how to trade, what headline they're
going to hit by, what shock to focus on
on any given day.
>> 12 months after the last bout of macro
paralysis.
Commodities in focus right now. Crude
higher by 1% 82.22, WTI 74.65.
Paul Sankey of Sankey Research joins
around the table. Paul, it's good to see
you. Thanks, Ty. Let's talk about this
shock, and can we start with the
president's plan? Two pillars really to
support traffic through the Strait of
Hormuz, accompanying these ships with
some kind of military presence, and then
insurance. For an expert like yourself,
how did you respond to the details of
that? Well, I think the insurance move
is is obviously key because that's what
stopped the the trade, and you've got
the tankers absolutely within range of
being attacked, but just sitting there
and refusing to move until they get some
sort of security. As you know, we've got
20 million barrels a day here in a 100
million barrel a day market, so you have
to get this oil flowing, and I think
talking to Javier Blas on Monday, it was
like this has to be resolved by Friday,
otherwise the market's going to start
panicking again. If we're not getting
this stuff flowing within days, if
you're talking 20 million barrels a day
at walking pace globally, every day that
passes, you're developing a bigger and
bigger problem. So, it's it's a major
concern, and it's very interesting that
the market isn't responding more. It had
run up into this, but it was also
retaining a very strong backwardation.
So, very high belief in future prices
being
>> I'm interested in your perspective on
the calendar. This is important. We get
a lot of people on the program who will
say, "What do you think?" And they'll
say, "It depends how long it lasts." And
I'll say, "What does that mean?" What's
circled on the calendar for you that it
gets real? And they'll say weeks.
They'll say a month. Let's see if it
lasts a month. Why are days so important
to you? Just because of the sheer volume
that comes through here. I mean, you've
had the the Qataris voluntarily also
back off LNG movement, and it's just the
sheer weight of volume of everything
that moves through the straits that's so
important, which makes it really a
matter of days here. When you casually
say this could last four weeks, the
market's not believing that at the
moment, but I mean, if we do, it's going
to be a major problem. And you've got to
keep in mind, as we mentioned earlier,
that with the Houthis you haven't
resolved the issue around the Red Sea.
So we don't have proof that we can
resolve these issues
when we are threatened by terrorists
attacking shipping lanes. We're talking
to the Saudis and hearing they can now
move 7 million barrels a day through the
Red Sea, but they have an uncertainty,
will the tankers be able to even go
through the Red Sea? So it's this is a
crisis of shipping and at the moment the
solutions are not obvious. You know,
that it's it's all words. We'll get into
the Houthis and the crisis in shipping,
which I think is really important. I
just want to follow up though, you're
saying that if we don't get a resolution
by Friday, then panic sets in. What does
panic look like in terms of pricing?
Well, you're already seeing it because
the release valve is the European gas
price, right? So that's where you you
see the first action and then the second
action is in distillate. The other
aspect which we've mentioned is that
China, you know, is is very dependent on
all these flows East Asia. Of course
China has a different relationship with
Iran. There's a concern that China may
be backing Iran at a given point and
allowing them to continue this for
longer. And then we simply don't know,
there's there's a very negative theory
that Iran is actually waiting to
re-release a whole another wave of
missiles or are they actually beginning
to run out of stuff to throw out there?
And we just don't know whether or not
they're actually running down on
stockpiles or whether they're waiting
for another further bigger attack. So
it's a very concerning indeed, needless
to say, situation. People are also
trying to game out what kind of
inflationary pop or inflationary
impulses could be if we're looking at
$130 a barrel, which some people have
put out there in the case of a
protracted conflict. In the case of the
crisis in shipping that you're talking
about, which seems very likely based on
the Red Sea and the Houthis and some of
the fringe groups that could potentially
come into play here, how much of a
premium would you expect coming into the
shipping lanes, coming into transport,
coming into materials that hasn't been
factored in yet, that is almost
structural just by virtue of this threat
being exogenous and persistent? Yeah, I
mean I think structurally what you would
say is that you're probably going to
have to reprice growth into the US
production. And so you need to take oil
on a sustained basis above 80 and beyond
to release another level of US reserves.
The oil companies here are really
planning on 60, 50 lower. You need to
get them to plan on 80, 90 and that
would take you into to triple digits on
the spot price before the companies
believe that it's worth drill, baby,
drilling again. So there's that on a
structural level is you actually a
reversal of what we were looking at. We
were looking at an oversupplied market
with the need for the US to produce
less. Now we're looking at a very
threatened market with actually the need
for the US to produce more and companies
that are very disciplined now in their
capex and are reluctant to do that. So
that's one structural notion. The other
one is that you're already seeing, I
think, significant economic damage here.
Obviously, the Middle East was a major
economic driver. Dubai, you had 1,000
people a day arriving in Dubai,
immigrating net. You know, a booming
economy in the Middle East that
obviously is going to be in disarray at
this point. So you never want to get too
carried away with your oil price
forecast because obviously ultimately
demand begins to react quite sharply.
And we're already seeing pump prices in
the UK. I've just come back from London,
immediately up, you know, by another 5,
10% at the pump before really any
physical impact has occurred. So these
things are happening very quickly and
we'll see it's just lucky that we're not
in a particularly sensitive time for
gasoline prices. We are coming out of
winter. So there's a couple of
mitigating factors on the demand side.
But ultimately, we saw how high it can
go with Russia.
You know, we got to the 125 type levels
before everything just fell away. And I
would say on balance, Russia was almost
more of a physical shock than what we're
facing here. I think they can keep the
oil flowing. So I don't see think that
you'll will will surpass Russia peaks
that we saw in 2022, which was already
at European gas prices with a further
extraordinary shock from Russia. Here, I
think there was some preparation for
this kind of event happening. It's just
the sheer physical weight of what we're
looking at coming out of the streets of
Houthi is is so big that solving the
problem is going to be a major challenge
that needs to be solved almost
immediately. Well, how close are we to
breaching storage capacity? There's some
of these big producers I mean, look at
Iraq. They've had to shut down
production. They just don't have the the
the capacity to store the oil that they
can't move.
>> Saudis, they have some release valves?
They have the East-West pipeline. They
do, and they're saying that's now 7
million barrels of capacity after Abqaiq
actually, so that's impressive. So, we
can take 7 million barrels a day going
back to this Red Sea problem. Uh you
know, we could shift some significant
Saudi volumes, and of course, Saudi are
very well organized around their
storage. The Iraqis don't have a lot of
storage, and they've had to almost
immediately shut in production. And then
of course, in all this madness, you've
got the whole situation in
Russia-Ukraine continuing to flame. So,
it's a crazy world out there, and it's a
measure of the crises that we've been
through that we haven't seen more price
action in oil because it's you know, we
haven't seen a sustained
rise structurally in oil prices since
'74, but boy, have we seen a lot of
crises in the Middle East since then.
So, there's a sort of market faith in
the ability of the market to to the oil
industry to to work around this, and
that's that's pretty interesting. Again,
we also had a a coming glut of LNG
that you know, is is sort of mitigating
this. One thing I would say as well,
these are just on the point of demand is
that AI demand is price inelastic. So,
that's very interesting. These companies
are going to keep spending on AI for at
least 2 more years until it's
demonstrably a disaster, and that means
there's going to be absolutely That's a
powerful point.
>> [laughter]
>> that that's going to be
that's that's that's going to be more
demand for energy, and we we we say that
if you have an electricity crisis, if
you have a shortage of electricity, it's
bullish oil because your solution is
distillate. And uh know, we've done some
work looking at the availability of
incremental distillate, for example,
from US refining. There really isn't
any. So, there's a lot of really dynamic
things here that are happening that are
that are, you know,
concerning. Paul, I've got one final
question. You alluded to the shape of
the curve. Can we just finish on that?
Most people view this as an issue for
spot
and not an issue looking further out. Do
you disagree with that?
Oh, I think this this structurally
changes a lot because the entire debate
in oil had actually the zeitgeist had
shifted, as we said. You had peak oil
supply concerns 2000 to 2000 15 15.
Then you had peak demand concerns for
oil that were actually we were going to
see the the rise of the Tesla and
everything else. And now we've gone back
to the idea of actually with AI, oil
demand, according to Exxon, is going to
be flat, all things equal, through 2050.
How are we going to supply that much
oil? And you've seen, for example, with
McKinsey putting out the the major
uh the the global major oils, private
major oils, need to find something like
22 million barrels a day of incremental
production over the next 10 years. And
it's like I don't quite know where
they're going to find another four or
five Guyanas right here. So, I think
that, you know, that's why the equities
Now, the equities are actually arguably
better than that discounting the
long-term oil price than the spot curve.
The spot curve is, you know, the the
price of oil basically is heavily traded
in the first 3 months. And then the rest
of the curve tends to be a smear of
wherever you're at. It's not strictly
true because at times we've had inverted
and smiley curves and everything else.
But broadly speaking, all the liquidity
is in the first 3 months. Historically,
we've argued that the equities are a
better discounter of the oil price. And
I've been saying this year, for the
first time in my career, I've been
bullish the oil equities and actually
bearish the oil price.
>> Huh. Now, I was flat wrong on the oil
price. But actually, you know,
thankfully, we were pushing
Schlumberger, we were pushing Exxon, we
were pushing all of them, more or less.
And that's obviously played out. What
the market seems to be telling you is
that we're looking at a structurally
higher oil price here long-term. That's
why I'm buying the equities and the spot
market is as the spot spot market does.
Oh, smart. Great framework, clinic I
expected one. It's good to see you as
always. Thank It's a pleasure, my
friend.
>> Thank you. Let's thank you, research.
Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. You Hara Hasmar, hey
you Hara. Hey John. [music]
Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi is
calling on Israel to pursue an immediate
ceasefire in Iran. He spoke with his
[music] Israeli counterpart on Tuesday
and said Beijing will play a
constructive role in easing regional
tensions. Wang also urged Israel to take
steps to ensure the safety of Chinese
citizens [music] and firms.
Airlines continuing to suspend flights
across the Middle East due to the
crisis. [music]
Tracking service Flightradar24 says more
than 12,000 flights have been canceled
[music] since Iran's first retaliatory
strike over the weekend. The US State
Department announcing plans yesterday to
help evacuate Americans who want to
leave [music] the Middle East.
And meanwhile here stateside, the
results are in from the first primary
races in the 2026 [music] midterm
elections. In Texas, four-term
Republican Senator John Cornyn is headed
to a runoff with State Attorney General
Ken Paxton. With 88% of the ballots
counted, [music] Ken Paxton trails
Senator Cornyn by one percentage point.
The runoff election will take place in
May. That's your Bloomberg brief, John.
[music] Hey you Hara, thank you. More
from you Hara in the next hour. And next
on the program, inflation. Going to get
lift.
Prices are going to go up and ultimately
if it persists, GDP is going to go down.
Now that we have inflation already at
three and now we're adding on top of
that more upward lift on inflation over
the coming quarters potentially. And
next we'll catch up with Greg Daco of EY
Parthenon from New York City. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
Struggling to hold on to gains at the
moment. Equity futures still positive
but off session highs. We're positive by
0.15%
up by 0.2
>> [music]
>> on the Nasdaq. Under Savannah's this
morning, inflation getting a lift.
Prices are going to go up, and
ultimately, if it persists, GDP is going
to go down. Now that we have inflation
already at three, and now we're adding
on top of that more upward lift on
inflation over the coming quarters
potentially, it really is a complex
situation because of this incredible
risk that we might begin to see even
more upside pressure on inflation from
an already pretty bad starting point.
So, here's the latest this morning.
Effects of the conflict with Iran
starting to add up. US prices for
gasoline and diesel on the rise
following days of high crude prices.
Greg Daco of EY Parthenon writing, "Any
successful strike on critical production
or processing infrastructure would
generate a far more significant market
shock." Greg joins us now for more.
Greg, good morning. Good morning. Is
this a shock for Federal Reserve
policymakers yet? Uh not yet. I think
what policymakers are going to want to
do is wait for more data. Uh they've
been very patient. Uh they've signaled
that patient, and there is a hawkish
bias amongst Fed policymakers to
essentially wait for more data and see
how the economy evolves, the US economy
evolves, how inflation evolves. And I
think one key factor that we have to
keep in mind is that inflation remains
above the 2% target. It's that simple
for Fed policymakers. As long as
inflation doesn't show any credible
signs of sustainably coming back towards
the 2%, they're not going to be
considering much additional easing from
here. So, the next few months are going
to be on hold, uh and I think the
current conditions likely increase the
the probability of this. Well, let's get
to the current conditions. Does the
labor market give them the luxury of
time? The luxury of waiting? Well, I
don't know. Uh we'll have to see what we
get on on Friday because I'm doubtful
that the January print was a sign that
labor market uh dynamics are improving
significantly. Um I'm still of the view
that we are in an environment where low
payroll growth is going to be the new
reality, where labor supply has been
significantly constrained by reduced
immigration, and whereas most are
saying, "Let's not be too concerned
about the labor market because the
unemployment rate is still low." I am
concerned about the income shock. In an
environment where you see job growth
close to zero, and where wage growth is
decelerating, and remember, wage growth
is that price gauge for how tight the
labor market is, that combo leads to
slower income growth, and that's what
you and I depend on to spend, and that
explains why there's been such a dip in
the saving rate, why there's been a rise
in credit usage. Those are not lasting
abilities to spend in this environment,
and so I'm increasingly concerned about
the income shock that is coming through
to the economy. Add to that a potential
shock from inflation, and you have a mix
that is somewhat concerning for the
outlook for consumers. I'm so glad you
said this because typically oil spikes
are both inflationary in the short term
and disinflationary over the long term
because of the dampening effect of the
spending power of so many people. I'm
interested that the market has taken
this simply as an inflationary shock.
You're not seeing that disinflationary
aspect of it come into play, and the
market is treating the Fed as though
it's going to do the same. Do you think
that that's correct? I think we have to
consider the affordability constraint as
a reason to essentially be careful as to
what the factors are influencing
affordability. Yes, prices, of course,
are the key fundamental factor affecting
affordability, but the income lever is
very important. If you have sufficient
income to essentially withstand any
price increases, then you're fine.
You're still going to be spending.
You're still going to see different
actors in the economy, businesses and
consumers, hiring, spending, investing.
But, if that constraint becomes too high
for income to continue to grow in real
terms, then that's where you start to
see a pullback, and that's where that
starts to become a key constraint for
Fed policymakers. We have to remember
one thing, Lisa, it's that in this
environment we're seeing an increasing
number of supply shocks, and most policy
makers are not equipped to deal with
supply shocks. Over the past few
decades, it was all about trending along
potential with demand shocks around
that. This environment is all about
supply shocks, which tend to be
stagflationary. Whether it's trade and
tariffs, immigration, or oil price
shocks, they're all supply shocks.
>> This was the common knowledge a couple
of years ago, but then AI happened, and
AI spending seems to be price
indifferent. It seems to be inelastic in
any way. Uh buy it at all costs, invest
at all costs. It feels like an
existential threat not to be ahead in
the AI race. I just wonder if you get
this dynamic where you have prices that
are increasing, you've got people with
wages able to pay for it because of the
haves. You have other people who aren't.
Is the Fed going to uh err on the side
of being hawkish because of '21 and '22?
I think so. I think the Fed does not
want to be burnt uh in terms of the
inflation dynamics. Uh a number of
policy makers have continued to refer
back to the '21, '22 period where they
were a little bit late to react to the
price shock that was coming from the
post-COVID recovery, and then the energy
price spike that we saw uh after the
onset of the war in Ukraine. I think
most policy makers in this instance,
while the textbook would tell them to
essentially look through a transitory
oil price spike and natural gas gas
price spike, they're likely to be more
cautious in resuming any easing because
they've been burned in the past, and
it's as simple as the fact that
inflation is above that 2% target, and
they're not going to want to provide any
perceived accommodation and risk being
seen as being on the wrong side when it
comes to uh policy making.
>> Leadership matters, often forgotten, but
we were waiting to see if Chairman
Powell got a second term. And here we
are waiting to see if we can get
confirmation of Kevin Warsh.
We're kind of in limbo right now at the
top of the Federal Reserve.
>> And waiting to see whether uh Fed Chair
Jay Powell's going to stay on because
Minneapolis [music] Fed President Neel
Kashkari is saying he'd love to see
that. Hi Greg, it's good to see you.
Thanks for dropping by. Great work last
week by the way with Madame Lagarde.
It's good to see you. Thank you, sir.
Great [music] echo there of EY
Parthenon. In the next hour of
Bloomberg's Surveillance, Chris Harvey
of CIBC, Torben L. Marcus of Wolfe
Research, [music] Jim Bianco of Bianco
Research, Tom Tzitzouris of Strategas
from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
Energy is the leadership. That's where
we are right here.
>> Most of the price action is because of
the traffic in Strait of Hormuz being
being halted.
>> The math is pretty awful for oil and gas
if it remains closed.
>> prices continue to rise, then all of a
sudden you have a stronger inflation
impact.
>> The long-term impact of this, which will
take weeks and months to clear out.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Anne Marie Hoardern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg's Surveillance starts right
now. And your scores, the price action
looks like this. Positive by a tenth of
1% on the S&P 500, on the Nasdaq up by
0.25, on the Russell up by 0.4. In the
commodity market, [music]
off the highs of the last 24 hours. The
high of the last 24 hours, 24 hours ago,
$85 [music] a barrel. $82.60 so far this
morning, up by 1.5%. The president
offering very vague details of a plan to
support [music] traffic through the
Strait of Hormuz. That's one pillar of
support. Here's another. About an hour
ago, this from the New York Times. A day
after the attacks began, operatives
[music]
from Iran's Ministry of Intelligence
reached out indirectly to the CIA with
an offer to discuss terms [music] for
ending the conflict. That according to
officials briefed on the outreach.
>> This feels like the market is super
hungry and it is jumping on anything
that looks vaguely like food. In this
case, they are looking for an off-ramp
and this provided some sense that there
could be a resolution that lasts less
time and say four or five weeks, which
seems to be the danger zone that a lot
of people have talked about other than
Paul Sankey. Look, I think it shows
where the bias of markets are and what
the market is hoping for and I hate to
personify the market, but it highlights
how offsides [music] this market would
be, this market would be should this be
continue for a while.
>> take that a few steps further. It
depends who you're talking about in the
market right now and this isn't a
judgment on one asset class or the
other, just to show just to show that
we're observing different views in each.
In equities, there is this sort of
playbook, this bias to fight this risk.
In commodities, it's a very different
story and I think we heard that from
Paul Sankey of Sankey Research just
moments ago and we've heard it from
Jeffrey Currie of Carlyle as well.
[music] There is a view in the commodity
market that this is far more serious
than some market participants are taking
it and you shouldn't fight this. This is
not just about the next few days, this
is about something much bigger over the
longer term.
>> And if you take that a step further to
the bond market, it highlights what
people are worried about inflation
suddenly and they're worried about the
Fed not necessarily [music] responding
to it by just standing pat and looking
past it. There is a structural increase
in cost to ship goods akin to what Jeff
Currie was talking about, tied to some
of the geopolitical threats that are
very real. We have seen them time and
time again and are going to take time to
work through and Paul Sankey was talking
about that, the stockpiles, just the
glut of oil and natural gas that needs
to [music] move, that's getting
stockpiled up, that isn't getting
produced. That's going to take time to
put back on the seas and that's going to
be something that's going to be baked
into prices.
>> We hope we can get that traffic moving
again through the Strait of Hormuz. We
hope that can take place and we hope
there is an off-ramp here that [music]
can lead to a de-escalation and a back
to a way of hostilities between all of
these sides right now, but when you look
at the reality and read headlines like
this and I mentioned this [music] in the
last hour, the UAE saying they
intercepted three missiles already today
and 129 drones and you're seeing that
beyond the UAE and across the Gulf. And
that's Joumana Bouachaoui did a great
job, our correspondent in the region,
talking about how much more the volume
of missiles from Iran have been going
towards some of their former allies,
their erstwhile allies and partners in
the region, their other Middle Eastern
nations, even the than Israel during the
12-day war, just highlights
>> [music]
>> how it's just attack everyone and how a
lot of people feel incredibly vulnerable
right now. Live from New York City this
morning. Good morning to all of you just
tuning in. Equities are doing okay,
positive by about 2/10 of 1%. Coming up
this hour, great lineup for you. Chris
Harvey of CIBC joins us as markets wake
[music] up to macro risk. Tobin Marcus
of Wolfe Research on the effort to
reopen the Strait of Hormuz and Jim
Bianco of Bianco Research as rising
crude prices
fan global inflation fears. We begin
this hour with stocks inching higher
following another very volatile session.
Chris Harvey of CIBC writing the market
reprice risk into the Iranian military
conflict. The resolution is unclear. We
think it now effectively represents the
macro risk. Chris joins us now for more.
Chris, good morning. Good morning. Start
of the year you said this market was
sleeping on a lot of macro risk. We're
still about 2% from all-time highs. Have
we at least woken up now? We've
definitely woken up, right? So, my issue
coming into the year is risk was
mispriced. Your risk-averse assets were
unloved and underappreciated. They've
been de-rated all in 25. Everyone was on
one side of the boat. Everyone really,
really positive, really, really
constructive. And we just thought
that people are sleeping on tons of
things, right? Whether it was a Fed
transition, Fed being super positive,
whether it was management of earnings.
Um, we didn't call for some of the
geopolitical risks that we're seeing,
but we expected it to start to increase.
And so, we thought you really needed to
reprice risk. You have, and that's one
of the reasons why I think we haven't
seen this major move in and around the
the conflict.
>> Three sources of risk now. So, let's go
through them piece by piece. One, of
course, is the Iran disruption. Two is
the credit jitters, and three is the
shock over the weekend. Are you worried
about one more than the other or just
the accumulation of all the events?
>> I'm really more worried about So, I do
think, again, with the conflict,
anything can happen. So, it's a wild
card, but it does look like it's going
to be shorter in duration. We'll see how
it plays out. I I the credit issue is a
bigger issue. It's going to linger for
some period of time and it'll flare up.
I don't think it's going away. And one
of the things that we just saw is that
what we what happened in the equity
market is happening in the credit
market. We needed a repricing of risk in
equities. Now we're seeing a repricing
of risk in credit. IG credit got down to
71 basis points which was a generational
low. Now we're up to 84-ish,
right? That's not bad. They're still
very, very low versus history, but you
need to reprice that. Some of the issues
I think there are people that are
offsides. They got too aggressive, maybe
applied too much leverage in certain
situations. It's more idiosyncratic at
this point in time, but I think that's
the gift that's going to keep giving it.
That's something we're going to have to
watch, especially if the economy slows
down in 2026 or later this year. And
just to build on the point that John was
making earlier, if you add some of the
oil shock to the concerns in the credit
market, how much does that accelerate
the fallout if you do get a Fed say that
remains offsides and doesn't necessarily
cut rates anytime soon?
>> Yeah, I don't the
the oil shock is not a big deal to us at
this point in time. You really need for
oil to go higher and and be substan-
substantially higher for some period of
time. Right? What we need for credit is
we need the economy to slow down. It
doesn't look like the economy's going to
slow down in 2026. If anything, I think
we're going to accelerate. It's more of
a late '26 issue, '27 issue. Because the
thing about leverage, it only bites when
the economy slows down, when when growth
slows down, and then you can't pay your
bills. Right here, yeah, there's some
bumps road and and oil's going to have
be an issue, but I don't think it's a
major issue. It's not at this point a
systemic issue. Do you think that the
credit issues are going to become
systemic at some point? I mean, this is
something that a lot of people have been
grappling with saying, "A lot of it is
just a rotation out of software names
and and trying to grapple with
AI-related disruption."
>> Yeah, so the the the easy answer to that
is that they'll always become a systemic
issue, right? We've always seen weak
credit cycles, right? But what we're
seeing and what I think we're seeing is
just a repricing of this. We're seeing
more idiosyncratic risk. We're seeing
where people were too aggressive and
we're seeing a shakeout. I don't think
when I look at IG credit, when I look at
the high yield market, I'm not so
worried. The The markets are functioning
well. They're providing liquidity.
Liquidity needs to go where where
or credit needs to go where it's is
getting to where it needs to go. Sorry
about that.
But I don't see something systemic at
this point in time. It's a concern. It's
an issue. It's going to cause volatility
as we get later in the year, as we see
more M&A activity, the systemic risk
will go higher at the end of the year.
Yeah, it's something we're going to
think about real hard. Something I think
we're going to see. The end of a credit
cycle and systemic risk don't
necessarily have to be in the same
bucket. No. You can have the end of the
credit cycle without systemic risk and
it's intriguing to me that people at
Bloomberg Invest Conference right now
are talking about the end of the credit
cycle and yet the equity market is 2%
away from all-time highs. Does one match
the other right now? So,
usually they the end of a credit cycle
is the end of a market, right? Because
what happens is the funding markets what
what you're doing is the funding markets
provide the liquidity for buybacks, for
property, plant, equipment, for M&A
activity,
and for Main Street. And when you can't
get that, the gears start to grind
tighter. Now, if we're talking about,
"Hey, it's the end of the credit cycle
and spreads are as low as they're going
to get and we're we're going to widen
out and we need more compensation."
Okay, yeah, then things can still work
and I think that's if that's what you're
implying, yeah, I think equities can
still work and and that's our view is
that what you need is a little bit more
compensation. You need a repricing of
risk. We're getting that, but the
systemic risk and
is just not high enough to to have the
wheels fall off the car. Mark Rowan was
pretty clear yesterday. If you missed
that conversation with John
Micklethwait, take a listen to this
quote. "This will be a shakeout. I don't
think it's going to be short-term. If
30% of your portfolio is in one industry
and that one industry is being impacted
by technology, you've not been a good
risk manager." This to me highlights
exactly what you're talking about. Most
of the people in Wall Street are
expecting some sort of shakeout at a
credit cycle that doesn't necessarily
bring some sort of huge downfall, but
actually gives them the opportunity to
distinguish themselves from other
different players. It's the reason why
you're seeing the Apollos of the worlds
and the J.P. Morgans of the world talk
about the shakeout and say, "Look, we'll
be the ones that are still standing. So,
watch out." Did you see how they met
redemptions at Blackstone? They
personally put it up themselves, $150
million.
>> that situation?
>> 25 partners. The executive team goes
around the partners and they say, "By
the way, we're going to have a whip
around, okay?" With a hat. And you're
thinking like you're thinking severe
serious credit risk that if you don't
contribute. And you've got to figure out
what's the right number. So, maybe you
call your partner and you try and work
this out, right? What is it? 5, 10, 15
million? The league that these guys are
in compared to everyday people, the whip
around like for us in the newsroom.
>> Like 150 bucks. Can we raise like $20 to
buy the cookies?
>> 100%.
>> Okay, like the boss is selling the
cookies and you got to make sure you buy
some just so you're in good favor at the
end of the year when you get that email.
This is like that on steroids. This is
unbelievable. You've got to come up with
what? Like $150 million? $150 million
from 25 partners. I was I was actually
thinking the same thing when I was
reading that. I mean, how forced do
people feel to do this? What were the
conversations like
[laughter]
with their wives or significant others?
Do they have to go home and say, you
know, "Look, I'm sorry, but we're going
to cancel vacations." Do they actually
have to cancel vacations or is it
nothing for them? Do they have to
change?
>> that that doesn't count towards your
compensation by the time you get to year
end. Like when I'm setting the bonus
pool for you, Bremo only gave us two
mil.
You know, so-and-so gave us 10. Oh, you
think that there's a return on capital
for the bonus pool?
>> Well, I actually think that there must
be some sort of loan structure. That's
what I was wondering. I I was actually
thinking this is probably they gave it,
they contributed from their paychecks,
but there might be some sort of loan
structure where they were getting some
sort of lockup in the fund for a long
period of time. That's what I was
thinking. I'd also love to know if
you're the one guy that didn't put any
money in the hat. He just left the firm,
John. That one
person. He just left the firm. I'm
sorry. He's looking for your job. We
need a producer. Come on over. Let's get
you an update on stories elsewhere this
morning. We can't afford them. Let's
[laughter] get you a Bloomberg brief.
Yohai Ra has more. Hey Yohai Ra. Hi
John, just recapping that outrageous
story you guys were just talking about.
Blackstone senior staff opening up their
wallets to help weather withdrawals from
its flagship private credit fund.
According to sources, more than 25
senior leaders from across the firm
putting forward approximately 150
million dollars to the Blackstone
private credit fund combined with 250
million dollars of the firm's [music]
own capital to cover a record redemption
request.
Meanwhile, the South Korean Kospi
suffering its worst one-day sell-off on
record plunging 12% [music]
in today's trading following a 7% drop
on Tuesday. The index seeing an
AI-driven rally this year that sent it
to higher by more [music] than 20% while
the S&P has turned lower on the year,
currently down by about 4/10 of a
percent.
And Pakistan saying it's in no hurry to
end its military operation in
Afghanistan. A senior [music] Pakistani
security official says the duration of
the operation depends on actions on the
ground by Afghanistan's [music] Taliban
government in rooting out militant
groups. Dozens of people have been
killed since the Taliban launched
retaliatory attacks last week against
[music] Pakistan's air strikes on
militant targets. That's your brief,
John. Hey Yohai Ra, I appreciate the
update. Thank you. And on the program,
looking for an off-ramp.
If we have a little high
oil prices for a little while,
uh but as soon as this ends, those
prices are going to drop, I believe
lower than even before. That
conversation up next with Tobin Marcus
of Wolfe Research, live from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
I just like to reiterate a programming
note in about 45 minutes time. We will
catch up with the US Secretary of
Defense, Pete Hoekstra, alongside the
chairman [music]
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Air Force
General Dan K. holding a news conference
from the Pentagon at 8:00 a.m. [music]
Eastern time. Looking for further
details of this conflict, we'll bring
you some of that a little bit later this
morning. Again, 8:00 a.m. Eastern time,
45 minutes away. Equity futures at the
moment on the S&P 500 positive by 2/10
of 1% on the Nasdaq up by 0.3, on the
Russell up by 0.5, holding onto gains in
the commodity market off session highs
for crude. We're only higher now by
about 3/4 [music] of 1% on Brent, and
you're seeing us turn lower on WTI.
74.32, we're down a third of 1%.
>> two prongs here. First, uh it's as if
like there might be some [music] sort of
off-ramp as indicated by that New York
Times story talking fourth person. There
also is the potential for the US to do
something in the Straits of Hormuz to
try to accompany ships. Either way,
people are looking for some sort of
trumpet, and they're hoping uh that that
will happen at least in US pricing.
Ambassador Vance this morning, looking
for that off-ramp. [music]
If we have a little high oil prices for
a little while,
uh but as soon as this ends, those
prices are going to drop, I believe
lower than even before.
>> This is, of course, damaging our
economies. This is true for the oil
prices and this is true for the gas
prices as well. So, that's the reason
why we all hope that this
war will come to an end as soon as
possible. So, here's the latest this
morning. Crude pare and galley gains
after reports suggesting Iranian
operatives have reached out to discuss
ending the conflict. Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall joins us now for more. Tyler,
welcome back. Let's get back to that
piece from the New York Times. Just go
through the details and tell us what
stood out for you.
Yeah, hey John, good morning. Well, The
New York Times is reporting that a day
after the attack this weekend,
operatives from Iran's intelligence
agency reached out to the CIA through
another country's spy agency. Still, US
officials reportedly remain skeptical
that either the Trump administration or
Iran is really ready for a diplomatic
off-ramp here. As the story notes,
President Trump had noted over the
weekend that he would be open to
negotiating with Iran's transitory
leadership team. But then just yesterday
in a post on Truth Social, he said that
it was  too late. Now, I will
point out that Oman's foreign ministry
on Sunday, a day after the military
campaign started, did post on X saying
that Iran was interested in
serious efforts aimed at de-escalation.
But then we heard from Iran's security
chief batting down that report publicly.
So, at this point a lot of this is going
to come down to questions about what the
future of Iran's leadership looks like
and I was in the Oval Office yesterday
where President Trump said that the
potential worst-case scenario would be
if new leadership in Iran emerged
just as bad as the current
regime that the US and Israel are trying
to change. And while President Trump has
previously advocated for Iranians taking
over their government, President Trump
said yesterday that the US is hoping
that a more moderate leader would emerge
that the administration feels that it
could work with for a potential solution
down the road. But then he noted that a
lot of the contenders the White House
had been tracking have been killed in
airstrikes. John, one thing is clear at
the minimum the US has telegraphed that
there needs to be a lot of issues on the
table in any potential agreement
including an ending to Iran's nuclear
program, an ending to its ballistic
missile program, and a stopping in its
support for those proxy militia groups
in the region.
>> Tal Kaner with the lights down in
Washington. Tal, thank you. This is a
big question and an outstanding one. To
what extent is this administration
sensitive to market developments? 12
months ago there was a feeling that they
were very sensitive to market
developments particularly in the bond
market. And then you see a headline like
this from the Treasury Secretary
speaking to the American press just
moments ago that the 15% global tariff
rate is likely to the start this week.
So if there is concern, it's not that
great. I think that's a really important
connection here. That how great is the
President Trump put? If you do see them
reiterating some of the tariff increases
that they had talked about before at a
time of heightened geopolitical risk and
already a risk-off feeling markets. Just
to extend this again yesterday some of
the tensions between Spain and the US.
You looked at you heard about some of
the other powers that they could start
to deploy trade embargoes, things of
that nature to get the leverage back
from my EPA. So is this going to be
reflected only if the markets allow it?
Well, I don't know what the signal
really shows.
>> Let's build on that conversation. Tobin
Marcus of Wolfe Research has this to
say, "If either economic or political
costs start to pile up, Trump can look
for the exits either through
negotiations or simply through
unilateral withdrawal." Tobin joins us
now for more. Tobin, let's get to that
point, the pressure point. How close are
we to it?
I don't think we're that close. I do
think that President Trump feels that
the military campaign is going well so
far. One of the notable developments in
the early innings of the war has been
Iran obviously is trying very
aggressively to strike some of these
energy targets, regional you know,
refineries and oil export terminals.
They've you know, successfully
threatened the straight although not
really hit a a of ships. You know, but
if we start to see, as many people have
worried about, dwindling interceptor
stockpiles, those attacks starting to
get more successful, our point is Trump
has a lot of optionality here. The way
that the objectives of this war have
been defined, where it's not about
regime change, it's about, you know,
doing enough damage to Iran's missile
and drone program, and that question
about what is enough is entirely a
judgment call that's up to the
president. So, I do think he has a lot
of optionality about, um, when and on
what conditions to start to wind things
down. To- Toby, there's a whole question
around what pushes him to want to engage
with that optionality. Is it market
movements? Has the oil market gotten to
a place where it could potentially be
raising some red alarms as you see the
price at the pump increase? I mean, is
there a a pain point that you're you're
focusing on?
Yeah, and I think we could get there. I
certainly don't think we're there yet.
Um, you know, a sustained, you know, if
if we're at triple-digit oil prices for,
you know, weeks or months, obviously
that starts to get a lot more painful
than what we've seen now. Those are
scenarios that a lot of people have
modeled and speculated about. And if
that plays out, you know, I think that
starts to be a situation where the
president would look to get out.
Similarly, if we see really alarming,
you know, movements in in bond markets
and currencies, obviously yields have
backed up a lot, uh, over the past two
sessions, but, you know, they're they're
not at an alarming level. So, you can
imagine that that sort of reaching an
alarming place, too. Um, you know,
again, I don't think that we are, uh,
there yet. I I I can't, you know, give
you a a number on the, uh, the Trump
play. But I I will say also, if you
think about the rhetoric and compare
back to how he was talking before and
immediately after liberation day, there
was a lot of pain talk back then also
about, oh, it's going to be this period
of temporary pain. If we have some pain,
you know, it's going to be okay. They
were sort of indicating that they were
willing to, um,
weather the storm in the same way that
he was saying yesterday in the Oval
Office, oh, we might have this period of
elevated oil prices, but it's not going
to be that bad. But nevertheless, when
things did get bad, they they changed
course. Like despite what the rhetoric
had been, uh, in advance. And I think
that's probably still true. How much is
a a the Republican Congress a check on
this? The idea that maybe there could be
some pushback.
This isn't very popular in terms of
people supporting the effort in Iran.
I'm just wondering from your
perspective, do you see that as
potentially causing a bit of a
halt to this?
Yeah, I don't think they're particularly
concerned about what they hear from
Congress, even on the Republican side.
Even for the most part, congressional
Republicans have been pretty supportive.
And if you look at the polling,
first as we expected, the approval of
the war has gone up as the war has, you
know, gone relatively well in the early
innings. It's very heavily polarized,
but among the Republican support is very
high. And the 85% of Republicans
say they support the war. You know,
they're underwater among independents.
They're very underwater among Democrats.
It's not by any means a political
winner, but I think in terms of their
base and what he's hearing from
political allies, that's not where the
unpopularity is sitting. It's I mean,
just getting some news crossing the
Bloomberg terminal. Just want to share
with the audience. This is from the UK
maritime agency saying that a container
ship was hit while transiting the Strait
of Hormuz. Struck by an unknown
projectile. No more details on that
other than that. Put that together with
a headline that I saw earlier on this
morning and I've shared with the
audience a few times about the amount of
projectiles going into the UAE. That
they've already intercepted three
missiles and 129 drones at last count
today. Tobin, when you see headlines
like that and then you get excited about
the prospect of an off-ramp because
there was some outreach over the
weekend, how excited should people be
about the prospect of an off-ramp,
Tobin? And I'll share this story again
with our audience from the New York
Times. A day after the attacks began,
operatives from Iran's Ministry of
Intelligence reached out indirectly to
the CIA with an offer to discuss terms
for ending the conflict. Should we be
encouraged by the fact there was
outreach or discouraged by the fact the
administration ignored it?
Yeah, and I think on the Iranian side, I
think there is some fragmentation as the
transition away from Supreme Leader
Khamenei continues. So, you know, even
if some elements within the government
are reaching out, I don't think that
necessarily means that that everyone's
ready to hang it up. Their explicit
messaging from figures like Larijani has
been more um
you know, more that they're going to
they're in it to win it and they're
they're prepared to tolerate some pain
and weather a longer period of war. I do
think that the decision is probably
going to come from President Trump's
side and it's going to come as a
judgment call about when enough is
enough. I don't think that the offers
that the Iranians are going to be able
to make are going to be satisfying
in the same way that the negotiations
were seemed kind of doomed heading into
the conflict. I think what it is that we
want from them are going to be really
tough concessions for the the regime to
make. And so, my guess would be that
it's more a question of, you know, doing
enough damage that we feel like we've
degraded the missile program to the
point that we want it
or
absorbing enough costs that it no longer
feels worth continuing. Good to see you,
Ty. As always, Ty Marcus of of War
Research on the pressure points for the
administration right now. Look, with
regards to the outreach, clearly there's
a lack of trust between the two partners
and that's why talks broke down one and
two. Is Iran in a position to really
follow through on any kind of off-ramp
even if there wasn't agreement [music]
given the lack of leadership in that
country right now? Who are we talking
about when we say Iran? I mean, who are
they even negotiating with and is that
person still around? Coming up on the
program, we'll catch up with Jim Bianco
of Bianco Research as Fed officials
debate the threat of higher inflation.
Plus, you have your Haslinda Amin with
her shares of Micron and Sandisk rising
on memory demand. Those two names
gaining [music] in the pre-market from
New York. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
It's difficult to keep up with this
market, so let's do our best. So,
equities were firmer. Now, they're down
about a tenth of 1% on the S&P turning
lower on the Nasdaq just moments ago.
Moments ago, we heard from the Treasury
Secretary Scott Morrison speaking to the
American [music] media a little bit
earlier this morning saying the 15%
global tariff rate is a likely to start
this week. That's weighed on equities
just a touch. Supporting equities just a
bit [music] was the report of outreach
from the Iranian side over the weekend.
That report coming from the New York
Times. And maybe some increased
sensitivity [music] from the
administration around the energy story
providing a framework to help traffic
navigate the Strait of Hormuz and maybe
a mechanism to ensure some of those
ships. Now, that was Sam Streeter. The
details that were pretty vague, Lisa,
and a lot of people are very skeptical
[music]
that kind of thing can be put in place
anytime soon.
>> Is this a tradeable market? I mean, I'm
asking seriously given the fact that
we're being whipsawed by headlines and I
understand the moves aren't massive.
Nonetheless, one of these different
scenarios could cause a completely
different outcome and the tail risks are
getting so significant. You're talking
about potential off-ramps maybe. You're
talking about potential escalation
re-escalation with the trade war now.
And then you're talking about what does
a conclusion to a conflict look like
that could get some of the prices of oil
and shipping back down to where they
were before.
>> resilient market. Think about everything
we confronted this shock over the
weekend. AI disruption, massive moves
beneath the surface, credit shifts as
well. We've had credit spreads start to
widen. Not blow out but start to widen.
And yet we're around [music] 2% away
from all-time highs on the S&P 500.
>> People do not believe there will be a
recession. People believe in the
resilience in the US economy and say
typically you fade geopolitical risks.
So that's [music] a knee-jerk reaction,
right? Now, that's what people want to
believe and the fundamentals seem to
suggest that. But when do you keep
paying attention to the fundamentals
when they're overcome by events?
>> If I tell the Treasury Secretary at the
start of the year that you can have a
bond market close to 4% [music] on 10s,
they take that, right?
>> Totally. 4.1% ish right now on 10s. I
think the administration [music]
would take that.
>> Yeah, of course we are freaking out.
Does this mean a re-inflationary boom?
Are we under
too complacent about some sort of
potential inflationary [music] shock.
Look, this is not exactly a volatile
market on a headline figure. Under the
surface, it [music] has been whipsawed,
nosebleed, people being blown out of
momentum positions, and that's the
reason why I think a lot of people are
feeling
>> [music]
>> quite different than that.
>> Let's finish on commodities. So, $85 a
barrel yesterday very briefly. We backed
away from those levels. We backed away
yesterday afternoon off the back of the
president's plan, if we can call it
that. 82.32 right now this morning,
higher by about 1%. WTI kind [music] of
inching higher as well. It's the
commodity guys that concern me right
now, and I keep going back to this
point. A lot of other people in markets,
[music] and this again is purely an
observation. It's not a judgment about
who's right or wrong, but a lot of
people in equity markets are making the
case, look at the geopolitical playbook,
typically you fade it, buy the dip.
But the commodity guys are very
concerned about a real material spike
[music] from here from here to maybe
triple digits because they believe we're
very, very close, days and not weeks
away from needing to shut in production
because we're [music] breaching storage
capacity. That's a story that might be
just on the horizon.
>> We've already seen that. It's actually a
story in play in Iraq. Question of how
long before it starts to be in play in
places like Saudi Arabia that does have
an off-ramp, but the UAE, as well as of
course Yemen and others, this is a real
question that people are trying to
examine as they look at the forward
curve, and they look at where the price
should really end up.
>> Crude right now 82.30 on Brent, 74.80
[music]
on WTI. As we count you down to the open
in about 2 hours away, let's get you
some morning movers. Yohara has more.
Hi, Yohara.
>> Hi, John. We are seeing shares of
SanDisk and Micron bouncing back [music]
this morning after falling sharply
yesterday, each down about 8%. The two
memory chip names, as we know, have been
some of the market's biggest winners,
but were caught up in yesterday's
risk-off mood. But now you have the dip
buyers coming in because the situation
has not changed. Memory chip demand is
still through the roof due to the AI
build-out, and it speaks to headlines
like this one. We are seeing NetApp
shares higher after the AI cloud company
won the green light from a city in
Missouri to build a giant AI factory
campus. The facility could deliver up to
1.2 gigawatts of computing [music]
capacity, putting it among the biggest
AI data centers being built today. So,
their stock shares up [music] 2%. And we
end on Bath & Body Works. This is the
retailer that sells a fragrance product.
Sales came in [music] better than
expected as the company says it will
exit areas that are not part of its core
product lineup like hair care. This is
another one like Ross Stores that's
[music] benefiting from this in-store
treasure hunt, hard to beat hard to
disrupt by AI. So, shares had already
run up 8% this year heading into the
report, up another 4.7% today, John.
Yeah, Johanna, thank you. Thanks for the
update. More from Johanna later this
hour. On a related note this morning,
President Trump warning that any
potential new leadership in Iran could
be equally [music] troubling.
I guess the worst case would be we do
this and then somebody takes over who's
as bad as the previous
person, right? That could happen.
Uh we don't want that to happen. That
would probably be the worst. You go
through this and then
uh in 5 years you realize you put
somebody in who is no better. Iranian
officials suggesting a new leader could
be named as soon as today. Elsewhere,
the US offering naval escorts and
insurance guarantees to keep trade
flowing through the Strait of Hormuz.
The president vowing to ensure safe
passage of oil from the Middle East as
the conflict in Iran enters its fifth
day. And finally, big tech titans
meeting at the White House today signing
a pledge to absorb the rising energy
cost of AI data centers. Representatives
from Amazon, Meta, Microsoft, and
Alphabet among those set to attend.
>> You know who else is set to attend? XAI,
OpenAI. Guess who's not? Anthropic. I
think it's going to be really
interesting. Is this going to really be
about energy picking up them about to
lose their big
>> cold now, aren't they? They are out in
the cold with the White House. They're
out in the very warm room when it comes
to a lot of the downloads.
>> in the download charts on
>> Exactly. on Apple. Which raises a
question about Sam Altman and what that
relationship's going to be like given
the fact that he's trying to beg
forgiveness now with his clients. These
tech guys don't help the energy problem.
And we were talking about what Paul
Sankey Sankey Research said a little bit
earlier. Their demand for data centers
is energy price inelastic. What happens
to the price of energy is not going to
dictate their determination to spend
this money over the next 12 months and
maybe beyond. That's a problem for the
administration. Will the administration
conflate some of the questions around
oil prices and the shock in the Middle
East with this demand for energy from AI
and say, "Look, they're paying for our
power. They can pay for the power that
can offset some of this as well." I
mean, this is could get really
interesting given how much of a focus
energy is right now.
>> It's interesting how real it's gotten
and how quickly it's got real. Yeah.
This meeting is taking place. This was
on the fringes last year of becoming a
problem over the next several years. It
was a problem immediately. And they need
to react to it right now. And we said
repeatedly that this is going to be an
issue going into the midterm elections.
That your support of tech players
spending all this money, you've got to
help the electorate understand why it
helps them. Show me the jobs it's
creating. Why are my bills higher? And
my anxiety around the labor market is
equally as high because of what's being
spent here. You need to show me the
benefits. Otherwise, you'll get the
pushback big time. That's the political
story. From the market story, it raises
a question of how long AI can keep
departing from the rest of the index
with people looking at this as a growth
sector. Increasingly, if big tech
companies are forced to absorb the costs
of the energy that they use, at what
point do they start being treated a bit
more like utilities given the
hyper-regulation that will also come
around this? And that will incur a very
different valuation structure than what
they currently are looking at.
>> Look out for that meeting a little bit
later. Let's get to the Federal Reserve
grappling with global inflation fears as
a conflict in and threatens crude
supply. The Minneapolis Fed President
Neel Kashkari saying it's too soon to
know the full impact.
The inflation data before Iran, I think
has suggested that inflation is running
somewhere between 2 and 1/2 and 3%. Core
goods inflation has been trending up
because of tariffs. Now with the
geopolitical events that we talked
about, uh you know, I just need to see.
We need to get a lot more data in. Right
now, it's just too soon to know what
imprint this has on inflation and for
how long. And Jim Bianco of Bianco
Research writing, "If you want the Fed
to cut rates, things just got a lot more
complicated if energy pushes headline
CPI to a big number later this month."
Jim joins us now for more. Jim, do you
think we're on track for that?
We very well could be. The price of
gasoline in national average is up 20
cents in just the last 2 days. That's
the biggest 2-day jump in 21 years. And
that alone, if we hold those prices
through the end of the month, would add
about two or three tenths to headline
CPI. So, everything is looking north
right now on the inflation numbers. And
that's going to make it very difficult
for a Fed that's focused on inflation to
say, "Oh, ignore all those big inflation
numbers. We got to keep talking about
cutting rates." They will be conditioned
by recent years. Do you think they
should be conditioned by what happened a
few years ago?
Yeah, I think that they they should be.
Especially too, if we were to get a
little bit nuanced, the Fed prefers a
measure called personal consumption
expenditure PCE. And that number is
actually going north. And the core PCE
number in January, when it comes out
next week, is expected to be 3.1%.
The core CPI number that everybody else
looks at is 2.5. That is unusual to see
that PCE number away above the CPI
number. Now, I think the reason is is
because
uh owner owner's equivalent rent has
been coming down a lot. That's been
depressing the CPI number. The reason I
bring that up is Fed officials are
focused on that PCE number. So, you
heard with Neel Kashkari. When they talk
about inflation, they're looking at that
PCE number going up. And they're getting
very concerned. And now we've got this
energy thing. So, they're they're really
concerned about inflation, where maybe
the rest of us are looking at CPI and
being not so concerned. Initially, the
knee-jerk reaction to the war in Iran
was the buy the buying of the bonds,
right? I mean, this was sort of a
knee-jerk reaction, go into safe havens,
and US Treasuries were that haven. Then,
they started to sell off in the face of
what you're talking about, a potential
inflationary threat. I'm just wondering
from your perspective, how far this
could go in terms of a sell-off before
some of the concerns about disinflation,
disruption, etc. brings down some of
those yields?
Oh, I think it could go a lot further.
It all really depends on, you know, you
guys were talking about this earlier. It
depends on what happens next. If this
war does not produce much more oil
infrastructure damage, and the price of
oil doesn't go much higher, I think
bonds could sell off some more. But,
we're at the mercy of headlines at any
moment that there can possibly be more
oil infrastructure damage that would
elevate the price of oil even more. So,
we're just kind of waiting on
circumstances right now to see where we
go. But, short of that, if if all we're
talking about is is shipping disruption,
no ships have been damaged, that can be
restarted any moment. Uh I think that
the price of oil could settle down, and
then bond yields could start back up.
Remember, they were 220, 420, 430 just a
couple of weeks ago. John mentioned this
earlier, and I keep thinking about it.
If you do have a Fed that's on hold for
a longer period of time as a result of
this disruption, and you already have
credit stress that's starting to emerge
in certain pockets, does this accelerate
that shakeout process?
I think it does. Because, keep in mind,
you know, the business development
companies or the BDCs and a lot of these
other highly levered companies, and
they're very dependent on interest
rates. They need lower interest rates to
lower their financing costs. And if we
start seeing interest rates start
meandering higher, and I'll use that
word meandering to to talk about the way
that they're going to go, it's just
going to put more stress on them. And
the shakeout could be um, even more
severe than just worrying about whether
or not software companies still have
their moat in the world of AI. Jim, what
do you make of how different companies
in private credit have dealt with these
problems independently? Blue Owl came
out and sold a pool of loans, a
portfolio of loans. They had some big
buyers, some big pension funds, but also
their own insurer. Questions asked about
that. Blackstone doing the wrap around
and coming up with $150 million
internally. That looks like they got
skin in the game. Maybe you take some
confidence from that. Jim, is there a
better approach do you see from certain
players?
Well, Blue Owl also put some skin in the
game, too. So, let's not discount that
as well. But, you're right. They're all
kind of scrambling around to try and
figure this out. But, I would say, in
the bigger picture, everybody goes to 11
when we start talking about gating with
private funds. Since 2009, we've seen
this for after 2009 with Citadel, we saw
this with the after Brexit with the
property funds in London. We saw this in
2020 with COVID. We saw this with
Blackstone's real estate fund in '22.
There's been over 100 private equity
funds or private credit funds that have
gated at one time or another in the last
15 years. And none of them produced a
systemic crisis. They produced problems
for those funds and problems for those
investors. But, if you weren't in those
funds or you weren't an investor, it
didn't produce a problem for you. And I
think that we'd have to start thinking
about whether or not this is different
than all those other examples. And I'm
kind of in the camp that it's not. It's
a problem for private credit. It's a
problem for those investors. But, I'm
not sure it's necessarily a systemic
problem.
>> So, let's stay on gating, Jim. And just
a final question. I forget who said this
in the last 24 hours, but I think it's
an interesting one. Do you think gating
is a feature or a bug of that industry?
It's a feature. And it's a feature
because you're you're investing in a
private fund that is priced once a
quarter. It's not liquid assets. The
the the private credit fund or the
private equity fund comes up with the
values that they will let you in or out
of. And that they're not they're not
like an ETF. They're not at the mercy of
a market that they can get let anybody
out at any time whenever they want. And
so, if there's too much people if
there's too much of a demand to get out,
gating is part of the feature. And as a
matter of fact, you heard Mark Rowan say
that yesterday. Look, if you want higher
returns and you want higher
uh you want higher returns because you
like these private credit funds, you got
to take more risk. And the risk might be
gating. Jim, just going to say a thank
you, sir. Jim Bianco there of Bianco
Research. The risk accumulating and
we've talked about the three key sources
of risk right now. AI disruption one,
the issues with credit two, and now this
over the weekend and into this week
three. Yeah, and they're coming at the
same time, which is different, right? I
mean, we have seen this sort of rolling
crisis in different sectors that are
attacking the market, but they're not
all at once. This potentially, with the
meeting of tech titans in the White
House with questions about credit funds,
can you spare $6 million?
And then this question about how long
this conflict could go on, it's uh
becoming a little bit more heady for a
lot of investors.
>> We'll focus on the third source of risk
in about 15 minutes time. We'll hear
from the US Secretary of Defense, Pete
Hegseth, alongside once again the
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
Air Force General Dan Cain, holding a
news conference from the Pentagon. That
briefing about 16 minutes away. Let's
get you an update on stories worldwide
this morning with your Bloomberg Brief.
Yohara has more. Hi, Yohara. Hey, John.
Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent saying
moments ago President Trump's new 15%
global tariff rate will likely take
effect this week. The new rate was
announced after the Supreme Court ruled
against the president's existing
tariffs. Bessent's also weighing in on
the conflict in the Middle East, saying
global oil markets are well supplied and
the US will reach out [music] to ship
owners in the Persian Gulf.
In Iran, the funeral for the late
[music] Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei has
reportedly been postponed. Semi-official
Tasnim News News Agency citing the
unprecedented presence of mourners as
the reason. The ceremony was originally
[music] scheduled to begin today at
10:00 p.m. local time in Tehran and set
to last for 3 days.
And airlines around the world continuing
to suspend flights across the Middle
East. Tracking [music] service
Flightradar24 says more than 12,000
flights have been canceled since Iran's
first retaliatory strike over the
weekend. The UAE says it's starting to
establish what it calls safe air
corridors that will allow [music] for as
many as 48 flights an hour. That's
Bloomberg Brief, Jonathan Yohai, thank
you. Thanks for the update. More from
Yohai about 30 minutes away. Up next on
the program, ignoring the obvious.
We're at the end potentially of a very
long accommodative cycle in credit. And
in every cycle, you have people who move
out on the risk curve, who ignore things
that are obvious. Tom Essaye of
Strategas joins us next, live from New
York City. You're watching Bloomberg
Surveillance. [music]
Great stuff from the team over at
Charles Schwab, Kevin Gordon, Liz Ann
Sonders. [music]
Kevin sent this over just a moment ago.
Just to build on your comments about
that index level resilience.
>> [music]
>> The S&P 500's max drawdown this year,
-3%. The average S&P 500 members max
drawdown this year, -12%.
The surface of the market feels pretty
calm. People talk about the paddling
duck type of market. I'm just struck by
the fact that that is not how people
feel in this market. They feel
whipsawed, they feel frustrated, they
feel beside themselves, and frankly
deceived because the trends that they
focus on change in a dime.
>> We can't come back to this. The longest
first quarter ever, still a month to go.
Please. It's amazing. [music]
It really is. Still a month to go.
Equity futures on the S&P 500 just about
negative, almost unchanged on the Nasdaq
100. Under Savannah's this morning, a
focus on credit, ignoring the obvious.
We're at the end potentially of a very
long accommodative cycle in credit. And
in every cycle, you have people who move
out on the risk curve, who ignore things
that are obvious.
And it all feels good while it's
happening, and then it doesn't feel so
good once it arrives. Well, some of
those changes have arrived. So, here's
the latest this morning. Blackstone
turning to internal executives to
[music] help cover the cost of a record
redemption request. People familiar with
the matter telling Bloomberg that
Blackstone raised about $150 million
from just 25 senior leaders to put
towards withdrawals from the Blackstone
private credit fund. Tom Sitsouras of
Teneo Strategy we continue to see more
cockroaches in private credit along with
lingering stress in office space and
commercial real estate. Tom joins us now
for more. Tom, we're ignoring the
obvious and welcome. What are the
obvious things that we're ignoring?
Well, I think the obvious thing that
we're ignoring here is that what ties
all of these these things together,
office space,
private credit, the AI risk, and the
threat
posed by conflict in Iran, is if the
yield curve steepens and even steepens
back out to more normalized levels,
you're going to have systemic credit
risk. If the yield curve is allowed to
remain relatively flat because the Fed
maintains a big balance sheet, and
because the Treasury continues to issue
T-bills rather than increasing coupon
auctions, then we're probably not going
to have systemic stress, but it's curve
steepening that's the big risk. So, Tom,
this is really important, and Lisa and I
spent the morning asking the very same
question. Do you believe the risks in
Iran right now, and the market
consequence of those risks
materializing, threaten to be an
accelerant of what's playing out in
credit?
They definitely do, but how we get there
is you got to make some mistakes along
the way. And by that I mean, well, first
of all, this conflict has to be
prolonged. And as I I think Jim Bianco
had mentioned, if there's further damage
to the oil infrastructure, that's also
going to risk that we're going to see
systemic risk in the US. But then you've
got to see policy mistakes by the
Federal Reserve. And I think a policy
mistake would be to ease into that
economic
supply shock. That's a risk. Why would
that
>> Fed eases, the curve is going to steepen
and inflation expectations are going to
have a chance to widen out and grow. And
that's when you start to put pressure on
places like private credit, where their
borrowing costs or their funding costs
or their investors are funded in the
5-to-10-year portion of the curve, or
even BDCs, where again, their funding is
primarily in that 5-year portion of the
curve, not the front end of the curve.
So, if the Fed eases into an energy
supply shock that is prolonged, the
curve is going to steepen and give
steepen quite a bit. Yeah, but Tom, even
without that, we are seeing yields go
higher. And maybe this the curve is
flattening, but still on an absolute
level, 10-year yields have been rising
in tandem with 2-year yields. It is
resetting people's expectation for
inflation, for baked-in premia that
people will have to pay to ship goods.
I'm looking right now at high-yield bond
spreads, which have increased, oh my
goodness, to the highest going back to
November. Still lower than three
percentage points over benchmark rates.
I mean, how much more do you see this
having to reprice just by virtue of all
the potential shocks coming down the
pike, and the potential for an
acceleration of the cycle that we're
already seeing play out?
You know, it's a great question. And for
what it's worth, our forecast for
10-year yields is somewhere around a 470
to 480 by the end of the year. So, based
on what we saw the economy play how we
saw the economy playing out this year,
we would say there's quite a ways to go
for yields to to push higher. But even
just a return back to 430, that 430 to
450 range, would seem to be in order and
that alone will probably put some
further pressure on the credit space,
absolutely. So, what's the haven play
here, Tom? Where do you go?
Well,
unfortunately, we're still in a world
where there's really not many havens at
all in in the fixed income space. You
would want to be typically the the
ultimate haven in in fixed income is
short intermediate
to intermediate duration investment
grade corporates. We'll say 1 to 3 year
A graded A+ rated paper typically has
the lowest volatility profile and that
probably still is a haven. Beyond that,
anything in the investment grade to
treasury space, agency space in the
again, the 0 to to 2 year portion of the
curve is where we would find safety in
this type of economic scenario. Hey,
Tom, this was so helpful. It's good to
see you, buddy. Thanks for being here.
Tom Torres at Strategas. We keep
returning to those three buckets,
sources of risk right now. AI
disruption, credit jitters, and
geopolitical risk in the Middle East.
One has informed two. AI disruption has
informed the credit jitters. How does
three, geopolitical risk, inform two as
well, the credit problems? And it's the
accelerant story that I think is an
interesting one, the interplay between
those two risks. Those risks have gone
in one direction, AI to credit risk. And
then you have a third that just kind of
has lingered out here as a separate
entity. Does the third go to credit that
then infects AI? Because that has been
the ultimate question. If you get the
credit taps turned off to the AI story,
how much could that disrupt some of the
build-out and the price to inelasticity
that you've seen from some of these? I
mean, it's a huge question and these
three are kind of coming together.
>> Yeah, and a big way. And potentially a
much, much bigger way. But we keep going
back to the same point. It depends how
long this lasts. Now, when I ask the
question how long does it have to last
for it to be a problem, we've actually
had quite a wide range of estimates. The
consensus seems to be
several weeks. 3, 4 weeks, bigger
problems. Post Sankey of Sankey Research
said it's several days. You get to
Friday, if that straight's not reopened,
you're going to see production shut in
and much bigger problems. I could just
hear Wall Street saying, "But, but,
but." And [music] I could hear a trader
saying, "Geopolitics never is the
presiding factor in market performance."
>> That's the consensus position, and
that's why we're around 2% away from
all-time highs on the S&P. Up next, Mira
Pandit of JP Morgan Asset Management,
Jay Goldberg of C-Port Global, and the
Fed Governor Stephen Myron, plus a
briefing from the [music] Pentagon on
the other side. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance just around the
corner.
I think the price action's reasonable
right now.
>> There's just too much uncertainty about
these larger narratives.
>> I think it's a buy incrementally less
America moment.
>> There's still some more room that you
could fall.
>> market is going to have a hard time
making that next leg higher. This
[music] is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now.
And your scores look [music] like this.
Here's the price action. Equities just
about positive on the S&P up by a tenth
of 1% on the Nasdaq up by 0.2.
>> [music]
>> On the Russell up by 0.4. Here's a
snapshot of the commodity market. Brent
and WTI volatile over the last 24 hours,
pulling [music] back now. We're down by
5/10 this morning on Brent. On WTI,
we're down by 0.8. As we see some signs
of support coming from the president on
the traffic going through the Strait of
Hormuz. And a story from the New York
Times supporting sentiment earlier on
this morning as well, suggesting that
over the weekend [music]
there was outreach from the Iranian side
looking for an off-ramp. Look, it's
Whac-A-Mole Wednesday, because
ultimately, on one hand, you've got the
question of how might you get an
off-ramp from President Trump, from Iran
at the same time that you have [music]
oil assets being potentially targeted
and hit in the Middle East. Questions
about how much supplies are building.
And as these headlines come out,
throwing a little tariff dust for that,
the you know, it just you see the
whipsaw that's going on in markets as
everyone tries [music] to digest what
the latest is.
>> Second of all, and noise, it's really
difficult right now. Let's go to that
piece from the New York Times. [music]
This is what they're saying, and I'll
read it out to you verbatim, and you can
decide what you think about it. A day
after the attacks began, operatives from
Iran's Ministry [music] of Intelligence
reached out indirectly to the CIA with
an offer to discuss terms for ending the
conflict. That according to officials
[music] briefed on the outreach. So,
there are a couple of ways to take this.
Number one, that President Trump didn't
take this. Number two, it is unclear
whether that person is still in the
Iranian leadership, is still around. We
don't have a sense of who's talking to
who. There are a lot of question marks
here, and it raises the specter of who
ultimately will take charge [music] in
Iran should there be an off-ramp. How
easy is it to find that?
>> So, in just a moment, we've got a
briefing, an important briefing that
we'll take right here on Bloomberg
Surveillance with the US Secretary of
Defense, Pete Hoekstra, and the Chairman
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Air Force
General Dan Caine, taking to the podium
in just a moment. And when they do,
we'll bring you those comments, and I've
got [music] a few questions myself. One,
of course, on the New York Times report.
What was the outreach? Who is it from?
What's the president saying about it?
Can [music] you share any details on
that whatsoever? Don't know what they
can say, but that question's going to be
asked. Second one would be on the
president's plan to escort ships through
the Strait of Hormuz. Do you have the
ability, the capacity, the spare
capacity to lend those resources to make
sure that can happen anytime soon?
>> Yeah, and does it include insuring some
of those ships against losses? Is this a
question of just a payment to compensate
for potential damage done as ships go
through the Strait of Hormuz? Will that
be enough? I mean, people don't want the
damage to begin with. Why would a ship
operator want to subject themselves to
that? Or is this actual military ships
that will be accompanying [music]
the transshipment of goods through that
strait? Look, there are a lot of
questions. There's a lot of also
questions about what the ultimate goal
is of this conflict.
>> should get some details in the next 15
minutes about where we are with
Operation Epic Fury. And then later on
in the hour, we'll get some market
reaction. Plus this on the Federal
Reserve, Governor Myron, about 27
minutes away.
>> [music]
>> What is the Fed's reaction function as
this shock plays out in real time? So
far, Neel Kashkari of the Minneapolis
Federal Reserve was speaking with
Michael [music] McKee yesterday and
talked about how there was likely to be
a greater degree of inflationary
pressure that might push him away from
cutting rates one time as he previously
had expected. Will that be the same kind
of tone? Probably not from Governor
Myron.
>> Let's head down to Washington, D.C. now
so we can hear from the U.S. Defense
Secretary, Pete Buttigieg, alongside the
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
Air Force General Dan Kelly.
>> with one
unmistakable message about Operation
Epic Fury.
America is winning
decisively, devastatingly, and without
mercy.
Under the direct command of President
Trump, the War Department unleashed this
operation early Saturday morning,
just 4 days ago,
which means
we need to remember two things.
First,
we are only 4 days into this.
Metrics are shifting, dust is settling,
and more forces are arriving. It's very
early.
And as President Trump has said, we will
take all the time we need to make sure
that we succeed.
Second,
we are only 4 days into this.
And the results have been incredible.
Historic, really. Only Only the United
States of America could lead this. Only
us.
But when you add the Israeli Defense
Forces, a devastatingly capable force,
the combination is sheer destruction
for our radical Islamist Iranian
adversaries.
They are toast,
and they know it.
Or at least, soon enough, they will know
it.
And we have only just begun to hunt,
dismantle, demoralize, destroy, and
defeat their capabilities just 4 days
in.
Starting last night and to be completed
in a few days, in under a week,
the two most powerful air forces in the
world
will have complete control of Iranian
skies, uncontested airspace.
I hope all the folks watching
understand what uncontested airspace and
complete control means.
It means we will fly
all day, all night, day and night
finding, fixing, and finishing the
missiles and defense industrial base of
the Iranian military. Finding and fixing
their leaders and their military
leaders. Flying over Tehran,
flying over Iran, flying over their
capital, flying over the IRGC,
Iranian leaders
looking up
and seeing only US and Israeli air power
every minute of every day until we
decide it's over.
And Iran
will be able to do nothing about it.
B-2s, B-52s, B-1s, Predator drones,
fighters controlling the skies, picking
targets. Death and destruction from the
sky all day long.
We're playing for keeps.
Our war fighters have maximum
authorities granted personally by the
president and yours truly.
Our rules of engagement are bold,
precise, and designed to unleash
American power, not shackle it.
This was never meant to be a fair fight.
And it is not a fair fight. We are
punching them while they're down,
which is exactly how it should be.
Thus far, Operation Epic Fury has
delivered twice the air power of shock
and awe
of Iraq in 2003, minus Paul Bremer
and the nation-building.
The campaign has seven times the
intensity of Israel's previous
operations against Iran during the
12-day war, seven times.
And as President Trump said, more and
larger waves are coming. We are just
getting started. We are accelerating,
not decelerating.
Iran's capabilities are evaporating by
the hour while American strength grows
fiercer, smarter, and utterly dominant.
More bombers and more fighters are
arriving just today.
And now, with complete control of the
skies,
we will be using 500-lb, 1,000-lb, and
2,000-lb GPS and laser-guided precision
gravity bombs,
of which we have a nearly unlimited
stockpile.
We used more exquisite standoff
munitions at the start, but no longer
need to.
Our stockpiles of those, as well as
Patriots, remains extremely strong.
The enemy can no longer shoot the volume
of missiles they once did, not even
close. And the chairman will lay out
some of those percentages.
So, our air defenses and that of our
allies have plenty of runway.
We can sustain this fight
easily
for as long as we need to.
And as I said yesterday,
we set the terms.
Now, you may not see much of it because
the IRGC shut off the internet to the
entirety of the country. They blind
their people
on purpose,
just like they kill their own
on purpose.
Much was made of the volume of missiles
Iran was able to shoot in the first few
days.
And sadly, as we projected,
a few got through
and killed six of our best, who will
hopefully arrive home soon.
We will avenge them,
no doubt.
But I liken Iran's predicament to a
football team
who scripted the first 20 plays of a
game.
The team knew what plays to run because
their first few drives were scripted.
But now that the game has started and
the blitz is on,
they don't know what plays to call, let
alone how to get in the huddle and call
those plays.
Iran's senior leaders are dead.
The so-called governing council that
might have selected a successor, dead,
missing, or cowering in bunkers too
terrified to even occupy the same room.
Senior generals, mid-level officers,
enlisted ranks, they can't talk or
communicate, let alone mount a
coordinated and sustained offensive.
That's not great for morale.
The Iranian Air Force is no more.
Built for 1996,
destroyed in 2026.
The Iranian Navy rests at the bottom of
the Persian Gulf.
Combat ineffective, decimated,
destroyed, defeated, pick your
adjective. In fact, last night, we sunk
their prize ship,
the Soleimani.
Looks like POTUS
got him twice.
Their navy not a factor, pick your
adjective, it is no more. In fact,
yesterday,
in the Indian Ocean,
and we'll play it on the screen there,
an American submarine sunk an Iranian
warship that thought it was safe in
international waters.
Instead, it was sunk by a torpedo. Quiet
death.
The first sinking of an enemy ship by a
torpedo since World War II.
Like in that war, back when we were
still the War Department,
we are fighting to win.
Also, yesterday the leader of the unit
who attempted to assassinate President
Trump
has been hunted down and killed.
Iran tried to kill President Trump
and President Trump got the last laugh.
Now,
this is not
a mission accomplished situation.
This is simply a reality check.
The combination of US and Israeli
intelligence and combat power will
control Iran
and will control it soon.
Sure, Iran will still be able to shoot
some missiles
and still be able to launch one-way
attack drones at civilian targets.
And their proxies will attempt to attack
our embassies, bases, and soft targets.
They are terrorists, after all,
and they need to target civilians
because they can't fight toe-to-toe.
But, we will find them
and we will kill them.
This is what the fake news misses.
We've taken control of Iran's airspace
and waterways without boots on the
ground.
We control their fate.
But, when a few drones get through
or tragic things happen,
it's front-page news.
I get it. The press only wants to make
the president look bad, but try for once
to report the reality.
The terms of this war will be set by us
at every step.
As I said Monday, is laser-focused.
Obliterate Iran's missiles and drones
and facilities that produce them,
annihilate its navy and critical
security infrastructure, and sever their
pathway to nuclear weapons. Iran will
never possess a nuclear bomb. Not on our
watch, not ever.
And this is why President Trump's moral
clarity on Iran today is so vital.
Unlike the past where vague red lines
and endless negotiations let Iran fund
terror and inch ever so slightly toward
a bomb.
This president sees the threat plainly
and acts decisively. No more half
measures, especially when Iran is at its
weakest.
No more letting Tehran play for time
while our people pay the price.
His leadership ensures that we finish
what we start.
And that we protect our warfighters by
crushing the enemy before they can
strike again.
Our offensive operations, refined
through months of relentless
preparation, are unstoppable.
And our defensive efforts
are unprecedented.
We have from the start put the
protection of our troops ahead of
everything else.
Before we
very publicly built up offensive combat
power,
we quietly ensured that our defensive
posture and power was in place.
And as we built up offensive combat
power, we moved the vast majority of
American troops, over 90% of Americans
that were on our bases, what we say off
the X,
out of the range of Iranian fire.
Our defensive shield is equally
formidable.
The most sophisticated air and missile
defense network ever fielded. Thousands
of Iranian missiles and drones have been
intercepted and vaporized.
Tens of thousands of American and allied
lives protected.
We have pushed every counter UAS system
possible forward, sparing no expense or
capability.
Like I said, this does not mean we can
stop everything.
But we ensured that the maximum possible
defense and maximum possible force
protection was set up before we went on
offense.
In closing, as President Trump told
German Chancellor Merkel yesterday,
Iran negotiated in bad faith,
stalling, scheming, and preparing to
strike.
And we acted decisively to defend our
people, our interests, and our allies.
President Trump took bold action
putting America first, the kind of bold
action that the American people elected
him to execute.
To our steadfast partner, Israel,
your mission is being executed with
unmatched skill and iron determination.
Fighting shoulder to shoulder with such
a capable ally
is a true force multiplier
and a breath of fresh air.
We salute your courage
and your contribution.
4 days in,
we have only just begun to fight.
America fights to win
and in Operation Epic Fury, we are.
May God's providence cover and protect
our troops, always. And with that, I
turn it over to the chairman. Thank you,
Mr. Secretary, and good morning,
everyone. Thank you for being here. I'm
here today to provide the American
people and those of you in this room an
update on Operation Epic Fury.
First, it's with profound sadness and
gratitude that I share the names of four
of our six fallen heroes, all from the
103rd Sustainment Command, U.S. Army
Reserves out of Des Moines, Iowa.
Captain Cody Cork, Sergeant First Class
Noah T. Eubanks, Sergeant First Class
Nicole Amor, and Sergeant Declan Cody.
To the families of our fallen, we grieve
with you today and we look forward to
welcoming your family members home at
Dover in the coming days. Out of respect
for the other families, we'll withhold
the release of their names until next of
kin notification is complete. And either
myself or Admiral Cooper will release
those names as soon as we can ensure
that all of those families have been
properly notified.
To our Gold Star families, to our
wounded warriors and their loved ones,
we will never forget your sacrifice. Our
nation stands with you and we are
eternally grateful for your courage,
your resiliency, your devotion to this
mission and to our nation.
As the Secretary said, we're 4 days in,
103 hours into this campaign. The
operation was again launched with clear
military objectives designed to
dismantle Iran's ability to project
power outside of its borders both today
and in the future.
First, we are targeting and eliminating
Iran's ballistic missile systems to
prevent them from threatening the US
forces, partners, and interests in the
region. Second, we are destroying the
Iranian navy, degrading its capacity,
capability,
and ability to conduct operations not
just in the Central Command AOR, but as
the Secretary showed in the video around
the world.
Third, we're ensuring Iran cannot
rapidly rebuild or reconstitute its
combat capability or combat power and
those phases will begin as the campaign
continues. As of this morning,
US Central Command is making steady
progress.
Iran's theater ballistic missile shots
fired are down 86%
from the first day of fighting with a
23% decrease just in the last 24 hours.
And their one-way attack drone shots are
down 73%
from the opening days.
This progress has allowed CENTCOM to
establish localized air superiority
across the southern flank of the Iranian
coast and penetrate their defenses with
overwhelming precision and firepower. We
will now begin to expand inland striking
progressively deeper into Iranian
territory and creating additional
freedom of maneuver for US forces. Let
me explain a little bit about how we're
thinking about staying ahead of the
enemy.
First, over the past several weeks,
Admiral Cooper and the CENTCOM team have
refined their operational approach to
the region.
>> [snorts]
>> Their planners identified key centers of
gravity that would allow Iran to project
power outside of its borders.
They thought about how to isolate
critical vulnerabilities and determined
where, with precision, the greatest
strategic effect could be achieved. As a
result of this, CENTCOM is now shifting,
in day four already, from large,
deliberate strike packages using
stand-off munitions at range outside an
enemy's ability to shoot at us, now into
stand-in precision uh strikes overhead
uh Iran. As the secretary said, this is
a point of munitions transition from
stand-off munitions to stand-in
munitions like joint direct attack
munitions, which are GPS-aided
free-fall weapons, and other things like
Hellfires, et cetera.
This will allow the joint force to
deliver significantly increased
precision effects on the target. The
throttle is coming up, as the secretary
said, as opposed to to ramping down.
This will allow us to maintain
consistent pressure on the adversary
over the coming days, disrupt their
launch timelines, and impose cost every
day around the clock.
I know there've been a lot of questions
about munitions. We have sufficient
precision munitions for the task at
hand, both on the offense and defense.
But, I want to tell you, teammates, as a
matter of practice, I don't want to be
talking about quantities, and I know
there's been a great debate about that
and I appreciate the interest, but just
know that we consider that an
operational security matter.
Let me flip to the map here.
Hopefully I don't kill anybody with a
laser pointer.
Um
Uh as I mentioned earlier and for you
with the camera right there, my friend,
I hope I don't ricochet off and hurt
you. Um over the initial days, the US
joint forces continued to attack and
attrit uh ballistic missile capabilities
as well as integrated air defense
capabilities along the southern axis.
Along the northern axis, Israel and the
Israeli Air Force has predominantly been
working integrated air defense targets
along the northern flank as well as
medium-range ballistic missile
capability as well.
From the sea, the USS Ford has continued
to project combat power here as well as
the bomber pulses that we talked about
in the in the opening days of of this
briefing. Along the southern axis, uh
the USS Abraham Lincoln strike group has
continued to provide pressure uh from
the sea along the southeastern side of
the coast and has been attriting naval
capability all along the strait and up
into the Arabian Gulf at a size and
scale sufficiently uh to address the
targets required. To date, we've hit
over 2,000 targets as Admiral Cooper
said in his uh video last night, uh
we've destroyed more than 20 uh Iranian
naval vessels including in addition to
uh to the frigate outside of the area,
uh one submarine and effectively
neutralized at this point in time Iran's
major naval presence in in theater out
there.
Um as the secretary showed the video for
the first time since 1945,
a United States Navy fast attack
submarine has sunk an enemy combatant
ship uh using a single Mark 48 torpedo
to achieve immediate effect sending the
warship to the bottom of the sea.
I want to remind everybody that this is
an incredible demonstration of America's
global reach to hunt, find, and kill an
out-of-area deployer is something that
only the United States can do at this
type of scale.
Over the next 24 to 48 hours, CENTCOM
will continue to strike infrastructure
and naval capability and will continue
to assess our progress against the
military objectives. It does take time
for us to collect that information and
to assess in route. Much of our
intelligence, surveillance, and
reconnaissance capability is currently
hunting and killing uh ballistic missile
launchers and one-way attack capability.
We're precise in that assessment and we
call balls and strikes in that
assessment. Uh we we take we take uh we
take that that that matter seriously.
Iran, on the other hand, has been
indiscriminate and more imprecise in
their attacks. They fired more than 500
ballistic missiles and more than 2,000
drones striking innocent civilian
targets throughout the region. Our
partners are answering the call to
defend themselves right alongside us.
Jordan, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, the UAE,
Qatar, and Kuwait are all defending
their people with their own combat
capability with precision and restraint.
Jordanian air defense crews recently
intercepted a cluster of Iranian one-way
attack drones headed to a mall.
Bahrain's air defense forces shot down
an inbound drone approaching Manama's
maritime infrastructure protecting both
their population and critical shipping
lanes. Saudi Patriot battery stopped a
salvo of ballistic missiles aimed at
energy facilities near Dammam. The UAE
neutralized multiple drones targeting
Abu Dhabi's industrial zone,
demonstrating speed and precision. And
Qatar, uh
fighters for the first time have shot
down two Iranian bombers that were en
route to their location. Together, these
nations are helping to defend themselves
and project power as required against
the enemy.
We're 100 hours in. It's still very
early, as the Secretary said, but the
balance is shifting. We've always got to
remember that these operations are
complex, dangerous, and far from over.
Our soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines,
guardians, and coast guard guardsmen
remain in harm's way, and we must be
clear-eyed that the risk is still high.
Um this is combat. Let us never forget
this. As we continue, I ask that we hold
all of our deployed teammates in our
thoughts, those standing the watch,
flying the sorties, sustaining the
fight, and carrying our nation's burden.
And I'll stop where I started, and
that's remembering our six fallen who
will return home as soon as possible. I
remain humbled,
grateful, inspired by every day the
valor and professionalism of our joint
force. They are quiet professionals
through and through, out there doing
America's work through the day and
through the darkness. And with that,
I'll take your questions along with the
Secretary. We've been tracking the press
briefing at the Pentagon down in
Washington, D.C. We'll continue to track
the headlines that come out of the Q&A
portion of that conference. Alongside
the U.S. Secretary of Defense, Pete
Hegseth there, alongside General Dan
Cain. Two notable headlines that came
out of that one, from the Defense
Secretary, that U.S. Israel have
complete control of Iranian skies. And
two, from General Dan Cain, the U.S. is
shifting from large to precision strikes
over Iran. As they do get uh complete
control over the skies, the initial move
in markets seem to suggest uh that
people were taking uh the general and
Pete Hegseth uh at their word, frankly,
discussing exactly what would happen and
getting some comfort from that. Still
some questions, and I'm sure that
they'll be getting them about what the
goals are in terms of not just
eliminating the nuclear threat, but also
exactly what they would like to
constitute
the government or the establishment to
prevent any kind of reestablishment of
the nuclear program in particular.
>> It's fair to say this is a fluid
situation. So far going into the cash
open futures is still positive by 3rd of
1% on the S&P, likewise on the Nasdaq in
the bond market bond yields are looking
like this. Yields are up by a single
basis point on a 10-year. We did get an
ADP report out just moments ago. That
was an upside surprise and an update on
the move in energy crude slightly
negative we're down by 2/10 of 1%, but
still in the 80s on Brent. Brent crude
at 81.21. With us around the table
tracking that briefing Mira Pandit of JP
Morgan Asset Management. Mira good
morning. Good morning. What are your
thoughts on the shock over the weekend,
how things are developing and what it
means for your world? Seeing that press
conference you are seeing that we are
projecting power and strength and
control, which I think is a calming
factor to the markets, but the reality
is there was also a comment about as
long as it takes to succeed and that is
the biggest concern for the markets of
how long does this go on and perhaps
there is increasingly going to be some
separation between how long does the
conflict continue and is there some
liquidity fluidity through the Strait of
Hormuz that just gives us enough relief
to put a little bit of pressure off of
markets. But overall as we take a big
step back and you know, we continue to
debate is this days or weeks or months
or years, ultimately from our
perspective now thinking about more the
the weeks
calculus here.
Our expectation is that it will be
modestly inflationary, but likely not
stagflationary because you still have
the benefit of of timing here around the
one big beautiful bill act and the
stimulus payments to consumers and
taxpayers, which essentially will
alleviate some of this pressure if we
have upward oil prices, which so far
have been relatively well contained, but
you do think about some of that putting
a bit of upward pressure on inflation.
Now, as it is, we were expecting that
inflation would peak about 3% or more by
the midpoint of the year, given tariffs,
given elevated tax refunds driving up
demand, and therefore prices. So, this
reinforces that view, but I don't think
it makes it a step function worse yet.
This is one of three risks we've
discussed all morning on this program.
The other two being AI disruption and
the credit jitters. Do you see those
risks accumulating into an index-level
threat? Because at the moment, we're
only 2% away from all-time highs. It
looks like we're doing okay.
We are experiencing somewhat of an
index-level threat as it is, because
even though we're roughly flat on the
S&P 500 and have skirted around that for
the most part of the year, you do see
that tech is still down 5% or 6%
year-to-date. And yet, on the other
hand, you have five different sectors
that are up double digits year-to-date.
And again, this isn't 2022, where it's
just energy that's being the big driver
here. You're still seeing industrials,
materials, consumer staples as other big
winners so far this year. So, you have
seen that rotation. It's just
challenging in such a concentrated
index, where tech has been such a big
part of it, to see those stocks look a
little bit weaker. But ultimately, I
still think it's a rotation around AI
from who are the innovators and around
technology to who are the beneficiaries
of that CapEx, and where is that
infrastructure layer coming in? Again,
it's just a little bit less of a weight
in the index to have that power to drive
it forward. But very much, the
conversation around AI has flipped from
are we overestimating AI and is it a
boom or and it and soon to be a bubble
to are we underestimating the power of
AI? So, we continue to cycle through
these different existential fears, which
does create an issue for the markets
ultimately that I think we'll look back
on in 2026 and say it was this tension
between sentiment and fundamentals.
Where the fundamentals within the market
this year and so far in the economy
still look strong, but the sentiment
clearly is anxiety-ridden. Well, I guess
to build on where John was going with
this, part of the issue that people have
this morning is the first part of what
you were talking about, which is the
inflationary aspect of this. It wouldn't
be stagflationary, it would be
inflationary, which potentially could
really create an obstacle for the
Federal Reserve to cut rates even once,
let alone twice, and could potentially
pressure some of the credit jitters that
we've already seen that are working
their way through the system. How
realistic do you see that? A tightening
in financial conditions due to the
inflation that could dampen some of that
growth that you were talking about.
Relative to 2022, I think this time
around we do have to separate headline
and core inflation. Because if you do
see headline inflation a bit elevated,
but core inflation is still experiencing
some of these disinflationary trends,
then the Fed still may feel comfortable
putting in a cut, especially depending
on how the labor market continues to
shape up. Relative to 2022, what we
forget is yes, there was an inflation
spike, but it was all across the board.
It was not just the oil prices and the
food prices related to geopolitics, but
also you still had very strong core
goods prices, very strong services
prices, which we're not seeing to that
same extent today. So, there was no room
for the Fed to do anything other than
staying in one direction and hiking
rates, whereas this time around, we do
have core inflation potentially looking
a little bit softer in the back half of
the year. Sometimes when the threat is
big enough, the decision is obvious. And
right now, I don't think the decision is
that obvious for the committee of the
Federal Reserve.
>> Which makes it that much more difficult
given the fact that they have a hawkish
bias. That's what we heard earlier.
Based on what we saw in 2021 and 2022,
they were burned by inflation, and they
don't want to be burned again.
>> There are a panel at JP Morgan
Investment Management. Mary, good to see
you. Thank you. I mentioned that ADP
number dropping just moments ago. Upside
surprise, 63K, the estimate 50. With the
details, Mike McKee has more. Good
morning, Mike. Good morning, John. Well,
it's kind of interesting because ADP,
you've seen the numbers,
found 63,000
for the private sector. And the
consensus so far for nonfarm payrolls of
economists we've surveyed for uh private
sector jobs is 65,000. So, very, very
close. However, where were last month,
uh 172,000 private sector jobs were
created and ADP's revised number for
last month was 11,000. So, big miss last
month. We'll see if they're any closer
this month. They do show of that 63,000,
58,000
are in the healthcare area. So, uh that
hasn't changed. The sectoral dispersion
of job creation is still very, very
narrow out there. Uh in terms of the
payroll situation for job changers,
6.3%. That's down. Uh job stayers get a
change of 4.5%.
That's unchanged from the month before.
So, still no uh price pressures or or
wage pressures out there. Mike McKee,
thank you, sir. Looking ahead to the
payrolls report on Friday, the next big
start for the labor market debate. The
bond move continues, yields slightly
higher for a third consecutive day.
Inflationary fears making a comeback.
And some people out there trimming Fed
rate cut bets. Federal Reserve Governor
Stephen Myron, I'm pleased to say, joins
us around the table for a conversation
about that and a whole lot more.
Governor Myron, good morning. Good
morning. Thanks for having me.
>> Thank you for being here, sir. Let's
start with the shock over the weekend.
What is the prudent response for policy
maker confronting a shock like the one
playing out in the Middle East? Well, at
the moment, I think it's too early to
sort of have any firm views as a result
of that. Oil's gone up a bit, but the
bigger question is does oil stay up or
does it come back down? And that will,
of course, will depend on how on how
things play out. But, even with that
said, even if oil stays at these types
of levels, to me it's difficult to get a
lot of read throughs as a result of
that. Sure, oil will will feed into
headline inflation, but the evidence
that it feeds into core inflation in any
sort of material way, unless there's a
huge move in oil prices, I think it's
quite limited. So, it's difficult for me
to get very excited about a policy
implication of what's happened thus far.
So, some people come on the program
spoke to Lisa and I and said, "These
Federal Reserve officials might be
conditioned by the post-pandemic
experience coming out of '21 into '22
and the inflation spike then and the
energy shock that developed at the time
emanating in Russia. Is this different?
Are we in a different place?
>> I think it is. I think that attitude is
a little bit of fighting the last war
and I think that the Federal Reserve for
decades has had the view that you know
that that headline headline inflation
shocks like oil are best looked through
and you sort of focus on core inflation
because it's indicative of where
inflation is going to go in the future
and you focus on the labor market. And
that type of reasoning leads you to look
through an oil shock. Now, of course
what happened in 2022 was a bit
different because the other policy
settings were different, right? Don't
forget monetary policy was as
expansionary as it ever been at the
time. Fiscal policy was injecting
trillions of dollars into an economy
that was recovering thanks to vaccines
and and medical medical improvements and
COVID passing on its own. And so the
policy environment was very different.
And so it was very easy for a slightly
inflationary shock to feed through into
the broader economy and create this type
of persistent inflationary problem that
the Fed dealt with. We don't have that
right now. We don't have fiscal policy
that's slamming on demand. In fact, if
anything supply is moving out quite
aggressively and monetary policy is
still modestly restrictive in my view.
So the the policy settings, the economic
environment is different. To focus on
that as you described moment ago to me
is fighting the last war. That was a
unique circumstance. At the same time
some people have argued that the January
jobs report raised a question about just
how weak the labor market actually was.
Even Governor Chris Waller came out and
said, "Okay, now it's a coin flip for
whether we should cut rates at the March
meeting." If we do get confirmation of
that strength with the February payrolls
report that we get on Friday, would that
make you rethink whether March was an
appropriate time to cut rates? So look,
for me for me we've got two years of a
trend two plus years of a trend of
gradually weakening labor markets that
sort of set in in 2020 in in 2023.
Um it's way too early to reject the
notion that that trend continues based
on one or two labor market reports. And
when you look at the totality of labor
market data, there's still evidence to
me that it needs more support for
monetary policy. When I look at at
things like employment levels of of of
young folks and and folks without
college degrees, when I look at people
who are unemployed for long periods of
time, long-term unemployment, to me
that's indicative of there still being
slack in the labor market that monetary
policy can accommodate. So, I think it's
too early to to to reject the notion
that a 2-plus year trend is is over on
the back of one one print.
>> Are you concerned though that right now
the market is moving the way that any
rate cut would be perceived as
heightening long-term inflation
pressures, just by virtue of some of the
supply shocks that we're seeing, and
frankly, the fact that people do see
strength re-emerging in certain pockets
of the economy? I mean, how worried are
you that a rate cut in March could be
potentially counterproductive and cause
the long end of the yield curve to rise?
Yeah, so if you saw evidence in
inflation markets that markets were
concerned about longer-run inflation
expectations, that's the type of thing
that would give me pause, but I don't
see evidence of that so far. Short-run
inflation expectations have come up a
quite a bit and you look at CPI swaps,
but that's just because of the
mechanical read-through of oil prices
into headline inflation. When you look
at longer tenors, there hasn't been much
of a move, and so as a result, I don't
get the impression the market is
concerned about longer-run inflation
expectations.
>> You've used this phrase modestly
restrictive a few times in this
conversation already. What is modestly
restrictive to you? Can you put numbers
on that kind of thing? Yeah, I think
we're probably about a point above
neutral now. And so, my view is that we
we ought to start by getting back to
getting back towards neutral. So, the
100 basis points in reductions you want
this year, it's not to become
accommodative. You believe it's to get
back to a neutral setting. Yeah, pretty
much. What would it take for you to
start thinking about the need to get
accommodative?
So, I would I would want to start
thinking about inflation coming in below
the target, which is a risk that I've
highlighted. If I end up being, you
know, I've I've emphasized housing
>> risk, Governor? What would be the source
of that risk to get below target
inflation? Sure, I've emphasized housing
markets a lot that that I'm expecting a
faster convergence down of of of renewal
rents to new rents, which will lead to
housing inflation to converge quickly to
to new rent levels. Um
and there's reasons for that that I've
talked about at length. I don't need to
repeat them here unless you want me to.
Um but if I end up being right about
housing and wrong about tariffs, and so
I've also argued I've also argued that I
don't view tariffs as driving goods
inflation.
You know, I I don't I don't view that
because imported prices imported good
prices are not inflating faster than all
good prices, which is what you would
expect to see.
Um and given that given that factor, I
don't view tariffs as driving as driving
goods prices. So if I end up being right
about housing and we get a sharp
deceleration in housing this year
because of quirks of how housing is
measured and because of dynamics of
renewal rents versus new rents, uh and I
end up being wrong about goods prices
and goods inflation comes down quickly
over the course of this year, then we're
going to undershoot. Uh we're going to
undershoot our target.
>> And you think that's a risk we need to
get ahead of?
Uh no, I'm not saying we're going to we
need to get ahead of that. That that
that would get me to to argue we go
balloon balloon neutral.
>> we're having about how preemptive you
might need to be in a moment like this
when others on the committee are
thinking let's wait and see wait and see
what happens. Lisa was asking how would
you vote at the March committee meeting.
Is this a moment to wait and see or a
moment to act? No, I think I I I think
it's a moment to continue acting. We we
we have I have pulse I have projections
for unemployment. I have projections for
labor markets, so do my for for
inflation, so do my colleagues. And I
believe it's appropriate to continue
acting in accordance with those
projections until you get evidence that
you have to change your projections. And
thus far, the evidence from from events
over the weekend haven't led me to
change any of my forecast for the labor
market for inflation over the medium
term. So it's too early to respond to
them. You said that you think that the
neutral rate is a point below the 3.75
where we currently are. And I'm just
wondering how quickly you think it's
important to get to neutral based on the
uncertainty, based on the disagreements
that people have about A where neutral
is, and B how things are going to
transpire. Yeah, so last year I was
voting for 50s because we were higher
away from it. Um and then as we made
progress cutting getting closer towards
neutral, I felt it was appropriate to to
to say okay now we now now I okay moving
in 25 clips. I prefer to still continue
moving in 25 clips until we got to
neutral and then to reevaluate. Because
at the end of the day, I don't see an
inflation problem in the United States.
Now, of course, if we get evidence that
what's happening in the Middle East is
bleeding through into broader inflation,
then that would change my mind, but thus
far there's no evidence of
>> Governor, what would that evidence look
like? What would you look for
specifically? Uh I'd look for inflation
expectations starting to move as a
result starting to move in the in the
direction of higher inflation. I tend to
think that the market-based ones are are
are more important to are more important
to me. Um or evidence that or evidence
the economy is is starting to in some
sense overheat again. Um then I would
then I would be comfortable sort of
changing that view and and moving more
slow moving even more slowly, but at the
moment, you know, I see I see it as
appropriate to continue continue
cutting. Do you have any company on the
committee?
Uh you know, I can't speak for I can't
speak for anyone else. And I and I think
most people probably end up sharing my
view that it's too early to draw
dramatic conclusions as a result of
what's happening.
>> different conclusion about what to do as
a result of not drawing conclusions.
They say okay, well then don't move.
You're saying keep moving. So, I mean
that's that's They started in different
every everybody is I think people are
generally where they were last week,
right? Um and it's just too early to
change your mind based on based on
what's going on. My my forecast for
inflation and employment in my view call
for continuing continuing interest rate
cuts. Other people disagree, you know,
and and so they also haven't haven't
moved yet. But as we get information
about it
>> Two more things to worry through. So,
the credit jitters is one and AI
another. I want to squeeze them both in
if we can. So, let's start with the AI
jitters. So, Block, a fintech company,
came out in the last week or so and cut
almost half of its staff. And they said
they're making a massive AI productivity
bet. As a policy maker for you, do you
consider that noise or signal? What is
that?
So, that's you know, that's one that's
one company. Um it's indicative of what
you could have more of, but this is just
how this is how productivity gains and
technology work. They allow you to
produce more with fewer fewer inputs,
with fewer fewer resources. And so if
you were able to produce the same amount
with fewer workers and and and less
capital, then your productivity goes up.
That frees those workers not necessarily
into unemployment, but to do other work.
And this is the this is this is always
been the story of of human technological
progress and the human economic growth.
We create new technologies, they destroy
some jobs, and then they create new
jobs. They free people to do new
activities.
>> think it's different this time?
Uh you know, I don't have a reason for
like I said before, you know, I I it's
too early to reject a 2-year trend of of
of of labor market moving in gradual
cooling direction. It's too early to
reject a tens of thousands of years
trend of how technology works in the
economy.
>> We've talked about these sources of
risk, and one has been the geopolitical
problems. This is another, too. And the
third one is connected in some cases to
what's happening with AI. It's also the
credit jitters, as well. So this raises
the question about potential financial
risk for you and the committee. How are
you thinking about things as they
develop? But just just one one last
point on AI. Even as AI destroys all
jobs and creates new jobs, that is the
type of that is the type of job
transition that is typically
accommodated by a central bank, right?
You don't want to prevent the new jobs
from being created by having policy
that's too restrictive. If you have an
increase in job loss due to new
technology, you have to accommodate that
and allow the new jobs to get created
instead of preventing it. So
>> what's developing in credit? I'm sorry?
Oh, do you have support what's
developing in credit? Uh so look, you
know, I I am like with that's in the
Middle East, I'm not at the point where
I have a strong read-through from what's
going on in credit into the economy. Um
I don't I'm not at the point where I
think it where I think there's any sort
of policy response that's necessary or
adjustment to forecast that's necessary.
One thing that I think is interesting
about what's going on in credit is to
me, it highlights a potential
shortcoming of our financial conditions
indices. We've got a lot of people who
argue it's inappropriate to cut because
financial conditions are so loose.
They've been arguing that for a long
time. But one hypothesis of mine that
I'm exploring is that those financial
conditions indices aren't showing you
what's going on in private credit
because you don't get the marks for
them. And to the extent that private
credit has been a major driver of credit
growth over the last half decade or so,
that's missing from the financial
conditions indices. So, when we get
these jitters in private credit markets
and then say, "Oh, financial conditions
are so loose." It's just because we've
decided not to look at the part of the
financial markets that are tight.
>> So, do you think we are seeing an
unwarranted financial conditions so far?
Well, you know, sort of unwarranted is a
bit of a is a bit of a heavy load, but I
do think I do think it's it's I would be
cautious about concluding that financial
conditions are so loose when you're
getting these these things happening in
private credit markets. I just want to
ask, have you talked to President Trump
recently?
Uh not since I resigned. Not since you
resigned. I'm just wondering how
difficult it is to conduct policy with a
huge unknown hanging over the committee
about who is going to be the next Fed
chair and what this process is going to
look like past April.
Uh well, I mean, I think we have a
pretty good idea of who's going to be
the next the next Fed chairman. We don't
have a good idea yet of of exactly when
he will become the next Fed chairman,
but I'm hopeful that we get that type of
that type of clarity soon. I think it
would be I think it would be great to
have that type of clarity.
>> Governor, is it weird being on the
Federal Reserve and not knowing when
you're going to exit? Just sort of like
there with an open-ended calendar on
what's going to happen next? It makes it
difficult to plan.
I bet it does.
For personal reasons, Governor, it's
good to see you. Thanks for having me.
>> Thanks for making time for us. We
appreciate it. Governor Stephen Moore
there of the Federal Reserve responding
to a range of issues and we keep going
back to the same three: politics,
credit, and AI disruption. And at what
point do they intersect and are we
starting to see a little bit of
connection between the three? It will
continue to be the question.
>> of the financial markets that I'll get
you an update on things. Equity futures
right now in the S&P 500 positive by a
third of 1% in the bond market. Yields
slightly higher, 10s up by almost a
basis point just north of 4% and in the
commodity market crude slightly lower
down by a third of 1% on Brent to 81.15.
With an update on stories worldwide this
morning, let's get to your Bloomberg
brief. Yohaira has more. Hi, Yohaira.
Hi, John. ADP data showing US companies
added the most monthly jobs in February
since last July, an encouraging sign for
the labor [music] market. Private
payrolls came in at 63,000, well above
estimates of 50,000, and a big rebound
from January's total of 22,000. [music]
Service-producing jobs accounting for
the bulk of the figures with 47,000 jobs
[music] added.
Meanwhile, Defense Secretary Pete
Hegseth saying the US and Israeli
assault on Iran is accelerating. [music]
In a press briefing earlier this hours,
Hegseth adding the countries are
dominating Iran from above.
In under a week,
the two most powerful air forces in the
world
will have complete control of Iranian
skies, uncontested airspace. The Iranian
navy rests at the bottom of the Persian
Gulf. Last night, we sunk their prize
ship,
the Soleimani.
Looks like POTUS
got him twice.
Hegseth also saying the US can easily
[music] sustain the fight with a nearly
unlimited stockpile of precision bombs.
And Goldman Sachs CEO David Solomon
saying he's surprised by the benign
market reaction to the Middle East
conflict. Speaking at Goldman's
first-ever Australia week, Sal- Solomon
saying it will take a couple weeks for
markets to truly digest the implications
[music] of the situation. We'll hear
more from Goldman Sachs CEO on Bloomberg
TV at 5:45 p.m. Eastern. That's your
Bloomberg brief, John. Hi, Yohaira.
Thank you. Appreciate the update. Up
next on the program, we'll set you up
for the day ahead. Plus, we'll catch up
with Bloomberg's Taylor Kandal the
latest from Washington and Ed Ludlow
previewing the president's [music]
meeting with big tech executives later
on today. From New York City, you're
watching Bloomberg TV.
>> Even if oil stays [music] at these types
of levels, to me it's difficult to get a
lot of read-through. Sure, oil will will
feed into headline inflation, but the
evidence that it feeds into core
inflation in any sort of material way
unless there's a huge move in oil
prices, I think is quite limited. So,
it's difficult for me to get very
excited about a policy implication of
what's happened thus far. That was the
Fed governor Stephen Moore. Steve
joining us just moments ago weighing in
on Fed policy in his own words in many
ways. Nothing has really changed for the
Federal Reserve over the last week,
[music] at least for him. If you want to
wait, you still want to wait, and if you
want to cut, you still want to cut, and
that man still wants to cut interest
rates. Equities at the moment on the S&P
500 going into the open and bell firmer
by 0.4%. New session highs on the Nasdaq
up by 0.6, on the Russell up by 0.8. In
the bond market, a little bit of
stability. [music] Largely unchanged
across the curve. 10s at just north of
4% at 4.06%, and in commodities, the
highs of the week, the highs of the year
were 24 hours ago, 24 hours plus now, at
$85 a barrel. Right now on crude, we're
pulling back by more than 1%. $80.50.
The situation is fluid, the market's
volatile, but at the moment we're
pulling back from recent highs. On WTI,
we're down by 1.6, 73.40.
As we count you down to the cash open,
[music] here's the trading day, the week
ahead looks like this. At 1:00 p.m.
Eastern time, a White House press
briefing at [music] 2:00 p.m., the Fed's
Facebook, 3:00 p.m., tech executives
meeting with President Trump at the
White House for a round table on power
payments. After [music] the closing
bell, earnings from Broadcom. Thursday,
another round of jobless claims plus
results from Costco. And on Friday, the
payrolls report is just around the
corner. Elsewhere, the US Secretary of
Defense Pete Hoekstra saying armed
forces control Iranian airspace, and the
operation will move to more
precision-guided bombs. Bloomberg's
Taylor Kendall joins us now from the
White House for more. Taylor, welcome to
the program. What did you make of that
briefing 30 minutes ago?
Hey John, I mean at this point it seemed
absolutely clear that US officials are
intent that this military campaign will
be sustained. We heard Secretary Hagel
said really emphasize the idea that the
US and Israel now have what they are
calling uncontested control over
Israel's airspace. I'm sure you picked
up on this quote, but we heard the
secretary say, "Quote, we are just
getting started. We are accelerating,
not decelerating." Now, he did outline
that the US feels it has plenty of
stockpiles to sustain this fight.
Something that President Trump himself
has emphasized as well. Though, we did
hear US officials decline to specify the
quantity saying that that would be an
operational risk. Now, on the
operational front, we also heard, as you
mentioned, that the US says it's going
to go deeper into Iranian territory and
John, that will be the next phase.
Natasha Khandalwal in Washington.
Natasha, appreciate the update. Also
taking place in the nation's capital
today, big tech executives heading to
the White House set to sign pledges to
foot the electricity bill for
energy-hungry data centers. Ed Ludlow
joins us now for more. Ed, they're going
to be on the hook and the pressure is
building.
Yeah, they are. Very simply, this
president wants the hyperscalers to pay
for the energy that they need. Either
they pay for it, they build the supply,
or they bring it through through another
mean by localizing the power supply to
that data center at scale. And if you go
back to last July when the president
launched the sort of
AI action plan, the emphasis was very
much on cutting red tape, deregulation,
expedited permitting, allowing those
names on your screen to move quickly.
But when we came to the State of the
Union address, you know, affordability
is clearly top of mind. And so, there
are a wide range of policy makers,
utilities, the hyperscalers themselves
that argue that if they take on the
upfront cost of modernizing the grid and
spread the investment over the grid, you
could lower the cost of home electricity
prices by a few percentage points per
gigawatt. But it's very hard to believe
in that when you look at the zip codes
on the eastern seaboard where data
center capacity is already expanded and
what prices for everyday Americans have
done in in those areas and
jurisdictions. But that's the the
trade-off here and so the names expected
are the hyperscalers open AI meta XAI
etc.
And you know the president will get them
to sign what is a pledge. It is a pledge
and it's called the rate payer
protection pledge. But then they have to
take that capital expenditure and do
something with it. Just quickly, where's
Anthropic and what's happening?
Yeah, I mean CBS is reporting that the
the the US military apparatus continue
to use their technology over the
weekend. But as it stands the status quo
from the president himself is that there
is a ban on them as a supplier. Um so we
need some certainty from the company on
that. But you know they are taking the
moral high ground here.
And and clearly have a a set of red
lines for what how they feel their
technology should or shouldn't be used.
I'd encourage the audience to go and
read them. Bloomberg reporting on how
open AI has positioned this because Sam
Altman has been communicating to his
employees and publicly about about their
approach here. Ed, looking forward to
the program a little bit later this
morning Bloomberg Technology a few hours
away. Ed Ludlow there. Coming up
tomorrow on this program Noe Dickson of
State Street, Tom Kennedy of JP Morgan,
the Richmond Fed President Tom Barkin
and Michael Gapen of Morgan Stanley.
From New York City this morning. Good
morning. Best of luck for the rest of
the trading day. From New York this was
Bloomberg Surveillance.